

 

 

THE THIRTEENTH NATIONAL ECONOMIC 
AND SOCIAL DEVELOPMENT PLAN 

(2023-2027) 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Office of the National Economic and Social Development Council 

Office of the Prime Minister 

Bangkok, Thailand 

 

 

 

 

(Unofficial Translation) 

 



Foreword 

---------------------------------------------------------------------- 

 The 13th National Economic and Social Development Plan (2023-2027) is a second-level 
plan that acts as a key mechanism to translate the National Strategy into implementation and serves 
as a framework for the formulation of third-level plans so as to enable relevant development 
partners to function in support of achieving the targets of the National Strategy within the expected 
timeframe. The National Economic and Social Development Council Act B.E. 2561 (2018) 
stipulated that the 12th National Economic and Social Development Plan shall be in effect until 30 
September 2022, which means that the five-year timeframe of the 13th National Economic and 
Social Development Plan comes into effect on 1 October 2022 and falls within the national 
budgetary fund for the 2023-2027 period — the second five-year implementation period of the 
National Strategy. 

 The 13th National Economic and Social Development Plan (NESDP) was formulated with 
the intent to focus on tangible development implementations and targets as well as to indicate a 
clear direction that Thailand should take during the following five-year period. These objectives 
were accomplished by processing well-rounded data, including the various dimensions of capitals 
lessons learned from the previous development plan, and changes in the factors and conditions that 
will influence various organs of the country. In addition, as per the orientation of the drafting of 
the plan, all sectors of the development partners were supported to participate in broad exchanges 
of ideas and opinions. 

 The 13th Plan was formulated when the world and Thailand were still facing various 
limitations due to the COVID-19 pandemic, which not only caused illness and death but also 
adversely affected economic conditions, impacting the livelihoods of all groups of the population. 
In addition, the 13th Plan period fall within a time of rapidly-evolving technological development, 
worsening climate change, an ageing society in Thailand and many countries around the world, as 
well as geo-political changes. In striving for national development amidst these current 
transformative trends, it is therefore important to bolster the internal strengths of the country to 
enable it to continue to prosper in the midst of wide-ranging changes and transitions while 
attending to the economic, social and ecological benefits of the country in a sustainable fashion. 

 In orientating the direction of the 13th Plan in order to empower the country to overcome 
challenges and reach the stage when “Thailand becomes a developed country with security, 
prosperity and sustainability in accordance with the Sufficiency Economy Philosophy” in the 
spirit of the National Strategy, the following four principles were adopted: 

 1. Sufficiency Economy Philosophy by perpetuating, maintaining, and furthering national 
development in accordance with the Sufficiency Economy Philosophy and through national 
development guided by reasonableness, moderation and immunization, based on knowledge 
and integrity. Consistency with national and international situations and conditions must be 
considered along with the potentials of economic, social, natural resources and ecological capitals 
of the nation. Importance is placed on multi-dimensional balances, namely the balance between 
the enhancement of national competitiveness and the ability to maintain self-sufficiency; fairness 
in opportunities to reduce disparities; and ecological equilibrium that enables people to co-exist 
sustainably with the environment. All organs of the country are administered to ensure the ability 


to cope promptly with risks from both domestic and international challenges. The formulation of 
national plans therefore shall be carefully considered using multidisciplinary approaches and 
implementation shall also be propelled to achieve the development goals for the utmost benefits 
of the people. 

2. Resiliency by focusing on three levels of development; namely, 1) ‘Survival level’ or 
‘Readiness’ in resolving or eliminating existing limitations or weaknesses that cause hardships to 
people’s lives or make the country vulnerable to internal and external changes as well as building 
preparedness for all levels of the society to cope with crises that might arise so that normalization 
can be quickly restored; 2) ‘Sufficiency level’ or ‘Adjustment’ of factors necessary to foster 
economic, social and environmental security from family level up to community and national 
levels. The adjustment includes directions, forms, and approaches to development to correspond 
to the dynamic changes taking place in the modern world; and 3) ‘Sustainable level’ or 
‘Transformation for sustainable growth’ by pushing for structural changes in various 
dimensions to enhance the ability of individuals and society for continual development and support 
the sustainable growth of the nation. 

3. Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) by basing the development direction on the 
concept of “leaving no one behind” and focusing on enhancing a good quality of life for all groups 
of people in terms of access to adequate basic necessities of life; a healthy environment; supportive 
factors for both physical and mental health; opportunities to capitalize on one’s own potentials to 
improve one’s livelihood; and commitment to pass on natural resources and a healthy environment 
to future generations. 

4. Bio-Circular-Green Economy Model (BCG Model) by focusing on scientific, 
technological and innovative knowledge to create added economic value and strive for a balance 
between the conservation and use of the natural resources base and biodiversity. The model also 
aims to transform manufacturing, services and consumption formats in order to reduce impacts on 
the environment. 

 


Contents 

 Page 

------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ 

Part 1 
Role, Significance, and Characteristics of the Thirteenth National Economic 1 

 and Social Development Plan (2023-2027) 

------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ 

Part 2 
National Development Context 
5 

------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ 

Part 3 
Objectives, Targets, and Development Milestones 
17 

3.1 Objectives and Development Targets 

3.2 Development Milestones 

------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ 

Part 4 
Strategic Plan Per Development Milestone 
22 

Milestone 1: 
Thailand is a leading country in high-value agricultural produce 
23 
and processed agricultural products 

Milestone 2: 
Thailand is a sustainable quality-oriented tourist destination 
33 

Milestone 3: 
Thailand is the world’s important electric vehicle manufacturing base 
39 

Milestone 4: 
Thailand is a high-value medical and wellness hub 
47 

Milestone 5: 
Thailand is the region’s key strategic trade, investment 
56 
and logistics gateway 

Milestone 6: 
Thailand is ASEAN’s hub for digital and smart electronics industry 
64 

Milestone 7: 
Thailand has strong, high-potential and competitive SMEs 
71 

Milestone 8: 
Thailand has smart cities as well as safe and livable regions 
78 
with sustainable growth 

Milestone 9: 
Thailand has less intergenerational poverty and 
86 
adequate, appropriate social protection 

Milestone 10: 
Thailand is a circular economy and low-carbon society 
93 

Milestone 11: 
Thailand Can Mitigate Risks and Impacts of Natural Disaster 
101 
and Climate Change 

Milestone 12: 
Thailand has a high-capability workforce committed to lifelong 
109 
Learning and responsive to future developments 

Milestone 13: 
Thailand has a modern, efficient, and responsive public sector 
119 

------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ 

Part 5 
Implementation of the Thirteenth Plan 
125 


------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------


 

Part 1 

--------------------------------------------------------------------- 

Role, Significance and Characteristics of the 13th 
National Economic and Social Development Plan 

(2023-2027) 

 

 


Actions taken to drive the country’s socio-economic development prior to the 20-Year 
National Strategy (2018-2037) were primarily based on the National Economic and Social 
Development Plans, which served as a framework for the planning of all administrative actions 
and other operations, including the application of the annual budget, to ensure coherence and 
consistency. The National Economic and Social Development Plans in the past were designed to 
act as Comprehensive National Development Plans for government agencies at all levels to align 
their missions, action plans, and budget applications with the goals specified in those plans. Each 
national development strategy in the previous development plans focused primarily on fulfilling 
its specific aspects of development objectives with an aim to ultimately integrate the achievements 
of each development aspect and bring about integrated, collaborative overall outcomes that would 
lead to the accomplishment of the national development goals indicated in the plan. 

Picture 1-1: Alignment of three levels of the plans 

 

National Security 
Policy and Plan 

Action plans 

National 
Economic and 
Social 
Development Plan 

(Revised) Country 
Reform Plans 

 The COVID-19 
Contingency Plans 

 

Country 
Reform Plans 

 

Master 
plans 

Ministerial 5-year and 1-
year Action Plans 

 

Other 
plans 

National Strategy 

3rd level 
plan 

2nd level 
plan 

1st level 
plan 

Graphical user interface, diagram
Description automatically generated
Source: NESDC (2019) 

 However, after Thailand embraced the Constitution of the Kingdom of Thailand B.E. 2560 
(2017), the formulation of plans to lay Thailand’s development framework has undergone 
significant changes. Section 65 of the Directive Principles of State Policies stipulates that the State 
should set out a national strategy as a goal for sustainable national development under the 
principle of good governance to be used as a framework for formulating consistent and 
integrated plans as well as annual budget frameworks so as to create synergies that will 
advance the national development goals as defined in the National Strategy. To transform national 
strategies into harmonized, systematic and actionable plans, the National Strategy, which is the 
country’s first-level plan, functions as a comprehensive national development framework that 
balances national development in the dimensions of national stability, economy, health, society 
and environment through a public participatory process. The second-level plans serve as key 
mechanisms for translating the National Strategy into actions and comprise the following: 1) 
Master Plans under the National Strategy which define integrated and interconnected 
development goals and strategic issues for relevant national strategies at different levels to ensure 
consistency; 2) The National Reform Plan, which aims to solve urgent structural, mechanical or 
regulatory barriers and lay a firm foundation for development to be compatible with the focused 
national development context; 3) The National Security Policy and Plan, which acts as the 


directive framework for operations to prevent, issue alerts about, solve or suppress any threats to 
national security; and 4) The National Economic and Social Development Plan, which identifies 
important development direction and goals under the National Strategy, taking into account 
development dynamics and conditions the country is facing so that relevant sectors can adapt their 
operations to those conditions. A well-defined development direction will result in coherence in 
national development from direction to structure, policy and practice – which lays the groundwork 
for the achievement of long-term goals. Key development issues other than those indicated in the 
National Economic and Social Development Plan still maintain their significance and will be 
advanced through other second-level plans. All of the four aforementioned second-level plans are 
key mechanisms for transforming national development directions in various dimensions under 
the National Strategy into action in the third-level plans, which is action plans to clearly identify 
the operations of government agencies’ projects in accordance with their missions to ascertain the 
success of the second-level plans and the National Strategy in achieving their goals with coherence 
and integration at every level. 

Picture 1-2: Elements of the second-level plans 

 

Country 
Reform Plan 

The Second-Level Plans 


Master Plans under 
the National Strategy 

 

Preventing, alerting, 
solving, or 
suppressing threats 
to national security 

Defining important 
development 
directions for 5-year 
period based on 
Thailand’s context 

Overcoming 
structural barriers 
and laying a 
foundation for 
national development 

Concerning 23 
development issues 
related to the 
National Strategy 

 

National Security 
Policy and Plan 

National Economic and 
Social Development plan 

Graphical user interface, application
Description automatically generated
Source: NESDC (2019) 

 To ensure that the 13th National Economic and Social Development Plan will be able 
to accurately identify the direction and development issues the country must act on in the 
second five-year phase of the National Strategy, it is necessary to adjust the paradigm in the 
drafting of the 13th Plan to make it as clear, practical and up-to-date as possible. The 13th Plan 
must explicitly state the main goals to be achieved as well as the sub-goals in each relevant 
dimension that shall be expedited or adjusted. It should also steer the country towards resolving 
weaknesses, reducing constraints, and developing a capacity to respond to global dynamics and 
conditions so that Thailand can grow continuously and sustainably amidst the evolving trends, 
uncertainty, and ever-increasing complexities of the modern world. 

 The 13th Plan was therefore drafted with an intention to clearly identify the development 
direction and goals upon which the nation needs to place an emphasis. The drafting process began 
by synthesizing and analyzing global, regional and domestic trends and their potential impacts, 
and then assessing consequent challenges and opportunities for national development with regard 
to the contexts, conditions, and constraints that Thailand is facing. Various elements of national 


development are considered in a holistic and comprehensive manner before the emphasized goals 
are set for the timeframe of the 13th Plan for the country to enjoy sustainable growth and 
development accomplishments according to the National Strategy. 

 


Part 2 

----------------------------------------------------------------- 

National Development Context 

 


 In reviewing approaches to national development during the 13th National Economic and 
Social Development Plan, it is necessary to understand the situational context of national 
development, which is a key condition in coping with highly dynamic and ever-changing external 
factors that can introduce beneficial opportunities or risk factors to Thailand’s development in the 
future. When faced with crises that gravely affect global economic, social and environmental 
conditions, Thailand needs to expedite the implementation of its national development plan to 
quickly reach targets by administering and managing its limited resources with the greatest 
efficiency. 

 The synthesis of the development context and the status of multi-dimensional capitals of 
Thailand during the 13th Plan was completed by collecting and processing data derived from 
the outcomes of the 12th National Economic and Social Development Plan, many issues of 
which still need to be implemented continually; together with assessing the impacts of the 
COVID-19 pandemic that brought about dramatic changes to the global development scenario 
and affected Thailand in many dimensions; and by contemplating on predictions of key global 
megatrends that can potentially affect Thailand’s future development. The synthesis is expected 
to facilitate an assessment of the directions, situational conditions, and present status of 
capitals in Thailand’s various dimensions, which constitute key factors in driving the national 
development plan into an anticipated direction, and to build Thailand’s preparedness for adaptation 
amidst increasingly complex changes in the modern world. These goals are to be achieved through 
strategic development approaches with clear emphases that are suitable for national and 
international contexts. The aim is to overcome previous limitations while utilizing existing 
potentials to create opportunities for sustainable growth amidst complex changes in a timely 
fashion so as to ensure the fair and substantial distribution of benefits to all sectors of the country. 

 2.1 Economic Dimension of the National Development Context 

 Thailand’s current economic system is categorized as efficiency-driven. The country’s 
economic competitiveness is enhanced through the improvements of the manufacturing sector 
efficiency and product quality. Major investments are concentrated on the development of 
supporting factors; for example, basic infrastructures, education, labor training, efficiency of the 
labor market, market size, financial market development, and technological readiness. Despite the 
continual development of these supporting factors, Thailand still faces challenges in improving 
resource utilization, product and labor market efficiency, and the efficiency of its public sector. 
The slow progress of efficiency improvements has caused Thailand to fall behind several other 
countries that have achieved high-income status. Thailand has therefore been trapped among the 
ranks of upper middle-income countries for a long time, despite its success in maintaining 
economic stability. Problems relating to structural factors — namely the excessive reliance on 
foreign countries for capital, technology, production and exports as well as its limited bargaining 
power in the global value chain — are ongoing issues for Thailand. This, combined with limited 
economic productivity, makes the Thai economy vulnerable to changes and also hinders its 
capability to upgrade its income level. 

The industrial sector, a crucial part of Thailand’s economic progress, lags behind other 
countries with similar levels of development. The Thai manufacturing industry primarily relies on 
Original Equipment Manufacturer (OEM) production or traditional modes of production with 
limited value addition. Thailand lacks sufficient labor productivity, technology application, 
investments in intellectual property and capital accumulation to develop its own technologies. Thai 
industries with potential for high technology or research and innovation are relatively small and 


face constraints in technological transfer, with a low ratio of domestic value-added generation and 
minimal use of domestic materials due to the absence of technology and key materials. Thailand’s 
average annual growth in total factor productivity (TFP) is a mere 2.1 per cent, which is lower 
than that of other upper-middle-income countries. Limitations in labor skill and quality 
developments impede TFP growth and expose Thailand to various challenges such as fast-paced 
technological advancement, changing demographics, shifting consumer behaviors, and global 
trade conflicts that aggravate competitions in the global market. Meanwhile, the Thai service 
sector primarily operates in the traditional modes, mainly depending on low-skilled workforce 
without efficient utilization of technology. It is therefore a workforce-reliant service sector that 
generates low value-added with limited growth, emphasizing quantity rather than quality. Modern, 
technology-driven businesses and highly-skilled service sector are still relatively small. 

 The COVID-19 pandemic has had a major impact on most business operations worldwide. 
The Thai economy has been found to be highly sensitive to international economic events. In 2020, 
the Thai economy contracted by 6.1 per cent — more severe than most other countries in the world 
which had the average economic contraction of only 3.5 per cent. The Thai service sector, 
excluding public services, suffered the worst impact with a 7.5 per cent decrease in annual growth. 
This is in particular among the tourism industry, which is highly important to the Thai economy. 
Tourism revenues from foreign tourists declined to 2.18 trillion baht in 2020, leading to a 70 per 
cent contraction of the national economy. The sectors that suffered with relatively lower impacts 
are the industrial sector with a 5.9 per cent contraction and the agricultural sector with a 3.6 per 
cent contraction. Widespread economic disaster inevitably affects the labor market, leading to 
higher unemployment, reduced working hours, and an increase in a household debt to GDP ratio. 
Thai household and business sectors have become more vulnerable to debt repayment. In 
particular, vulnerable groups with low incomes and higher levels of short-term debts for 
consumption — which do not generate income and incur monthly installments of loan repayment 
— are the most affected by decreased incomes. Higher household debt may further restrain private 
sector consumption and affect the Thai economy as a whole. This reflects the vulnerability of the 
Thai economic structure that has limitations in coping with crises and increasingly intense 
competition. 

The vulnerable economic structure and limited domestic value creation are key factors 
hindering Thailand’s industrial development and economic growth, which also impacts its 
competitiveness in the face of a changing technological and consumer landscape in the global 
arena. The International Institute for Management Development (IMD) ranked Thailand 28th out 
of 64 economies for its economic competitiveness in 2021, downgraded from 27th in 2017. This 
was partly due to a focus on capital and price competition over investment in quality or value 
development, and partly due to the impacts of the new normal lifestyle on the growth of Thai 
online businesses. The domestic online market is dominated by foreign platforms providing access 
to cheaper foreign products, leading to intense price competitions. 

The increased use of automation and robotic technologies in various production lines to 
replace workforce (while most laborers still lack necessary skills and knowledge), the labor sector 
contraction due to an ageing society, and trade restrictions implemented by several countries to 
put a curb on imports — these might all become factors constraining Thailand’s economic growth 
in the future. 

Despite several structural limitations and challenges, Thailand still maintains a potentially 
healthy state of economy due to its rich natural resources, well-developed infrastructure and 


logistic systems, and expertise in producing products and services that meet global market 
demands. These factors support the country’s adaptation in order to embrace benefits from 
opportunities presented by global megatrends, leading to shifts in consumer behaviors and 
demands, changes in business operations, alterations in the supply chain, and the relocation of 
manufacturing bases. The advent of the digital age will create new jobs that require technological 
skills and increase demands for electronic products. A globally ageing population will drive 
demands for medical and healthcare products and services. A health-conscious trend will lead to 
increased demand for safe agricultural and healthy food products. The rising concern for the 
environment will boost demand for clean energy, electric vehicles, and eco-friendly products and 
services, while putting pressure on businesses to adopt circular economy principles and prioritize 
sustainability. These contexts open up an opportunity for Thailand to transform its economic 
structure by shifting resources from a traditional production base to a future-oriented economy that 
generates higher value added and contributes to sustainable development in line with the 
approaches and goals of the National Strategy. 

In this regard, Thailand’s economic development during the 13th Plan needs to expedite a 
transformation of the manufacturing sector into an innovation-driven economy that aims for 
sustainable development. This ambition can be accomplished by emphasizing product and 
service quality enhancement to create higher value and by ensuring the fair and practical 
distribution of economic benefits to all relevant domestic sectors. In order to revive the economy 
from the impacts of the COVID-19 pandemic, diverse approaches for national economic 
restructuring need to be cascaded into multilevel policies and plans that support the transformation 
of key potential sectors to become industries and services of the future as the forthcoming drivers 
for economic growth. To achieve this goal, Thailand needs to boost the growth of industries with 
potentials and advantages by integrating technology to rapidly improve their overall productivity 
for high-value products and services. This requires investment in research and development to 
advance existing knowledge and foster innovation that will lead to the creation of Thai intellectual 
property with an emphasis on value and sustainability. Thailand should also focus on developing 
new industries of the future that align with global market trends so as to offset the declining 
domestic purchasing power. Achieving this objective requires efforts to enhance the quality of 
production factors, building an enabling ecosystem for fair competition, upgrading links to the 
global value chain, and maximizing the utilization of the existing infrastructure, incorporating 
technology and fostering innovation to improve labor productivity to correspond to the target of 
transforming into the future-oriented and high-value creation industry and service sectors. 

The next development period is geared towards increasing the potential of the 
manufacturing sector as well as elevating the quality of Thailand’s main products and services to 
correspond to global market demands and changes in the global value chain. This next 
development period will also focus on expediting the development of Thailand’s targeted key 
manufacturing and service sectors by: 1) Elevating the agriculture sector towards the production 
of high-value agricultural produce and processed agricultural products by utilizing 
technology to improve productivity, reduce dependency on natural resources, and add value to 
agricultural produce for the high-value food industry; 2) Transforming the tourism sector, 
Thailand’s key service sector, into quality-focused and sustainable tourism by promoting 
quality, value, and sustainability over quantity, and creating added value for services that align 
with the modern market’s directions and trends; 3) Transforming the automobile industry into 
an electric vehicle industry throughout the supply chain with the support of investments in 
research and development in order to boost the capacity of Thai manufacturers while preparing the 


energy infrastructure as well as other supporting factors in a systematic manner; 4) Propelling 
Thailand to become a high-value medical and wellness hub by producing more medical and 
healthcare personnel, upgrading standards, and supporting the utilization of advancements from 
cutting-edge research and technology in treatment processes and healthcare services as a means to 
create added value and to upgrade the level of services based on innovative and advanced 
technology; 5) Implementing strategies to make Thailand the region’s key strategic gateway for 
trade, investment and logistics by enhancing connectivity between areas both domestically and 
internationally along with developing digital and logistical infrastructure to facilitate trade and 
investment; and 6) Accelerating the development of Thai electronics industry to become ASEAN’s 
center for smart electronics and digital industries, by transforming Thailand’s semi-conductor 
and electronics industries from OEM (Original Equipment Manufacturer) to OBM (Owned Brands 
Manufacturer) and ODM (Owned Design Manufacturer). 

2.2 Social and Human Resources Dimensions of the National Development Context 

 The efforts for national development in various dimensions under the previous national 
economic and social development plans have resulted in Thailand’s overall success in mitigating 
poverty-related problems reflected in the continual decline in the number and proportion of people 
living in poverty in Thailand. During the period of the 12th Plan, it was found that the proportion 
of the poor decreased from 8.6 per cent of the total population in 2016 to 6.84 per cent in 2020. 
However, due to limitations in long-term national data, the assessment of poverty eradication 
results can only provide the average value of the overall picture, which cannot explain the 
dynamics of poverty and cannot determine whether the most vulnerable households will be able 
to escape from poverty. The lowest-income group has increased its average income per head by 
4.6 per cent, which is lower than the targeted 15 per cent a year on average. The key factor is the 
unequal distribution of benefits from economic growth. Despite an increase in national income 
generated by economic development, it was not fairly allocated to all population groups, resulting 
in the persistent poverty of some individuals. Moreover, an economic downturn following the 
impacts of the COVID-19 pandemic has led to an increase in poverty, making it more difficult for 
some people to escape from the poverty trap and increasing the likelihood of intergenerational 
poverty. The situation recapitulated structural problems in Thai society including disparities in 
access to quality education and skill development, technology, infrastructure, and public services. 
There is also inadequate social security and welfare to maintain stability, which could affect the 
long-term development of the country. 

 Thailand’s inequitable distribution of economic and social opportunities has brought about 
disparities in many dimensions, including a wide gap of income disparity between the rich and the 
poor, with the average income of the richest group being nearly 16 times higher than the poorest 
group. The high-income group enjoys faster income growth compared to the low-income group, 
who continuously accumulates debt. The high-income group has more opportunity to save and 
invest, leading to the top-earning 10 per cent of the population owning assets valued at almost one-
third of total national assets. This indicates wealth disparity, which is partly due to the unequal 
distribution of economic benefits in the past. 

There is also a spatial disparity resulting from the growth and concentration of economic 
activities in Bangkok and its surrounding areas, where the majority of income comes from the 
industrial and trade sector, while the Northeastern and Northern regions, which make up about 
one-third of the population and whose income mostly rely on agriculture, have an economic size 
lower than 10 per cent of the national gross domestic product (GDP). The per capita income in 


these regions is also lower at less than half the national average and three to four times lower than 
that of Bangkok and its surrounding areas. This is not only due to the concentration of economic 
activities but also to disparities in infrastructure, resources allocation and human capital quality, 
which are important factors for development. Bangkok and the Central region have higher Human 
Achievement Index (HAI) than other regions in almost all aspects, reflecting disparity in access 
to quality public services such as healthcare, education, profession, income, transportation and 
telecommunications. Moreover, Thailand also has a wide gap in the business enterprise disparity 
between businesses of different sizes. Even large Thai business enterprises, which are the main 
driving force of the country’s economic growth, still have lower production capabilities compared 
to multinational companies (MNCs), while the Small and Medium Enterprises (SMEs), which 
make up more than 99 per cent of all enterprises and employ more than 70 per cent of the 
workforce, contributed only 34.2 per cent to national GDP in 2020. This indicates that Thailand is 
still unable to elevate the role of SMEs in driving the country’s economy, as targeted by the goal 
of 50 per cent. Obstacles preventing small enterprises from developing into medium-size 
enterprises include limitations in access to capital for business expansion, productivity 
improvement, management system development, technology utilization, and domestic and 
international market expansions. These reflect the problem of Thai SMEs’ inability to adapt and 
take advantage of technological advancement in order to cope with crises and to respond to fast-
changing market demands. Thailand’s multi-dimensional disparity problems were brought to light 
and exacerbated by the COVID-19 pandemic crisis. The poor and the disadvantaged underwent 
more severe impacts than the general population due to their lack of savings, inability to access 
credit services, and high risk of being laid off. They also faced greater health risks due to reliance 
on public transport and cramped, unhealthy living conditions, as well as limited access to 
protective gears and disease control equipment. Meanwhile, technological advancement might also 
lead to digital disparity, for a lack of digital tools, skills, and capital to access the internet. All 
these shortages exacerbate the opportunity to participate and benefit from new economic activities, 
education, skill development training, and access to public assistance measures. 

 As for its population structure, Thailand has become an ageing society from 2005, with a 
total number of over 11.6 million elderly people in 2020, or 17.57 per cent of the total population, 
and a trend that is set to increase. It is expected that within 2023 when the 13th Plan is in use, 
Thailand will become a Complete Aged Society with the number of people aged over 60 years old 
as high as 20.1 per cent of the total population. In contrast, the school-age and working-age 
population is on the decline, particularly those between three and twenty-one years old which will 
continually decline in proportion until they will account for merely 20.66 per cent of the total 
population in 2027, or a decline of over 715,000 people within the period of the 13th Plan. 

 Becoming a Complete Aged Society might aggravate domestic disparities due to higher 
income disparities among the elderly compared to the younger population. A continuous decline 
in the proportion of the working-age population might result in shortages in the workforce and 
increase the reliance on foreign laborers, leading to potentially negative economic and social 
impacts such as slowed growth, decreased competitiveness, and reduced labor productivity. 
Additionally, there will be a need for more budgetary requirements to cover the social welfare 
expenses of the retired population as well as higher healthcare costs, which would further increase 
the fiscal burden. 

 In terms of Thailand’s human resource development, the overview seems to show 
continuous progress with improved well-being, better access to education, and higher income 


levels. According to the Human Development Index (HDI) of the Organization for Economic Co-
operation and Development (OECD), the Thai population of all age groups has gained more 
capability in general, but there is a declining trend in reading and educational attainment, with an 
increased number of the “Not in Education, Employment or Training” youth (NEETs) whose 
potentials have been undermined and underdeveloped. The qualitative development of human 
capital has always been a major challenge for Thailand, owing to the system and quality of 
education that generate low educational achievement. 

A report by the Organization for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD), 
which tested the knowledge and understanding of 15-year-old students worldwide in mathematics, 
science, and reading, found that 59.5 per cent of Thai students did not pass the standard criteria 
and only 0.18 per cent scored above the standard. Moreover, Thailand lacks synchronization 
between the education system and the labor market with absence of database on national human 
resources supply and demand to support workforce development planning. Such data would help 
identify necessary professional aptitudes and skills for each specific profession, which the business 
sector values more than educational certificates. These pose limitations in the production and 
upgrading of labor skills to correspond to the market’s demand and the national direction to 
transform its economic structure into an innovation-based economy that tends to have higher 
demand for skills related to science and technology, such as digital knowhow, data management, 
artificial intelligence, coding, as well as skills that technology cannot yet replace, particularly 
behavioral skills such as human skills, critical thinking, teamwork, and creativity. As the 
proportion of school-age population is expected to be declining, there will be less need for an 
expansion of educational institutions in terms of quantity, but this will provide an opportunity to 
upgrade educational quality, equality and efficiency. This can be achieved by utilizing technology 
in the management of educational resources and lifelong learning. The advancement of digital 
technology and more widespread access to the internet provides more opportunities for education 
and learning beyond the classroom, such as distance learning, lifelong learning and personalized 
learning. These types of learning will play an important role in responding to the demands of a 
fast-changing labor market. 

 An overall assessment of the context and status of Thailand’s social capital indicates that 
during period of the 13th Plan, Thailand must focus on resolving its structural problems in order to 
progress towards a society of opportunities and fairness through distributing opportunities, 
fostering equality, and reducing disparities in terms of income, wealth accumulation, geographical 
area, and business competition. These can be achieved by the dissemination of economic and 
urban development to distribute benefits from economic progress, provide equal opportunities to 
access basic infrastructure and quality public services, enhance physical, logistical and digital 
infrastructure to accommodate economic and urban development so that all groups of people can 
access and benefit from technology, including access to knowledge, finance, and social welfare. 
Particularly, this will enable vulnerable groups to have the opportunity to develop their full 
potentials in order to remedy chronic poverty and prevent intergenerational poverty. This can 
be achieved by promoting quality education and professional skill development to children and 
youth from the poor household group along with developing comprehensive and inclusive social 
security and protection that are systematically integrated to ensure stability in life and adequate 
social protection for all to be free from poverty in a sustainable manner. 

To level the playing field for business competition, an emphasis should be placed on the 
development of SMEs’ competitiveness potential and sustainable growth by creating an 


enabling environment that allows Thai entrepreneurs to compete fairly, such as providing 
technological support, accessible financial mechanism to cover all capital sources, upgrading 
product and service standards, as well as connecting Thai SMEs to the global value chain network. 

2.3 Natural Resources and Environmental Dimension of the National Development Context 

 Thailand’s natural resources and environmental capital serve as a fundamental pillar 
for sustainable economic development and quality of life for people. However, economic activities 
that excessively exploits natural resources for production and consumption can bring about waste 
and pollution beyond the carrying capacity of the local ecosystem and can lead to the deterioration 
of natural resources and environment. This may affect the long-term economic and social 
development of the country. Thailand’s economic development over the past several decades could 
be regarded as focusing on the benefits of economic growth without sufficient consideration for 
sustainability in the use of natural resources and the carrying capacity of the ecosystem. The 
efficiency of natural resource usage in producing goods and services remain low with low added 
value creation. This has resulted in the rapid degradation of Thailand’s natural resources and 
increasingly severe environmental problems from waste and pollution. This is a challenge for 
achieving sustainable development goals, which are among the key determining factors in attaining 
the development vision of the National Strategy. 

An assessment of the country’s key natural resources shows that Thailand’s forest 
resources remain relatively stable, with the proportion of forest areas estimated to be around 31 to 
33 per cent of the country's total landmass as a result of reforestation to replenish forest area loss 
each year. Nevertheless, these figures are still lower than the target laid out in the 12th Plan, which 
set an expansion of forest areas to cover 40 per cent of the country’s total landmass. Considering 
long-term tendencies, it has been found that in the past forest encroachment and deforestation were 
the major causes of forest loss in the country. However, forest fires, both natural and human-
caused, have recently become the most significant cause of Thailand’s forest area loss. With 
wildfires becoming more common, coupled with the warming effects of climate change, forest 
land and biodiversity will be even more seriously threatened in the future. 

As for water resources, Thailand has continuously been developing its water resources, 
both surface water and underground water sources. Nevertheless, the rapidly increasing economic 
activities in the agricultural, industrial, and tourism sectors, together with household consumption, 
have led to higher demands for water. This, combined with the degradation of natural water sources 
and fluctuating rainfall each year, has resulted in a decrease in the water level in reservoirs and 
more intense droughts each year. At the same time, Thailand is frequently prone to floods, and 
although the number of afflicted people has declined in the recent past, it is still rather high. The 
situation is made worse by the increasingly severe effects of climate change. However, 
advancement in technology can be useful for improving water management practices; for example, 
by using water-saving technologies in production processes, by adopting the internet of things 
(IoT) to manage water loss in the supply system, and by using technology to forecast the water 
situation with more precision and accuracy. 

Marine and coastal resources play an important role in maintaining the balance of 
biodiversity — by serving as habitats for sea animals and plants — and in supporting various forms 
of economic activities such as transportation, tourism, and fisheries. Thailand has a total coastal 
area of 3,151 kilometers covering 23 provinces, which is at risk from natural factors and human 
actions; namely the encroachment of mangrove forests, release of toxic waste, pollutants, plastic 


waste dumped into the sea and climate change. All of these are becoming a significant threat to 
marine and coastal resources as they can cause a loss of natural balance in coral reefs as well as 
increasingly serious coastal erosion in many areas. 

Regarding Thailand’s environmental capital, waste management is a significant challenge 
for the country’s environmental management. The proliferation of economic activities and 
people’s changing lifestyles generate continuously rising amounts of waste, increasing by 2 per 
cent a year on average during the period from 2010 to 2019 despite the usage of appropriate waste 
disposal and recycling systems. In 2020, only 69 per cent of waste was appropriately disposed of 
or recycled. This figure was lower than the target in the 12th Plan, which set it at no less than 75 
per cent to be reached by 2022. Consequently, a large amount of waste remains, affecting water 
source quality, aquatic life, as well as both surface and underground water sources. Unmanaged 
waste is caused by the inadequate capacity of waste management systems, resulting in a failure to 
cope with the large amounts of waste generated by the country’s economic and social activities. 
Besides, a lack of proper waste sorting and segregating leads to an inability to fully reuse waste 
products. 

Air pollution is another problem in Thailand, particularly PM2.5 particles that mostly 
come from the burning of waste or agricultural materials in open air, vehicle emissions, diesel 
engine exhaust, industrial emissions, or natural disasters such as forest fires. This situation of toxic 
air pollution recurs every year, especially in industrial areas and large cities with dense populations 
and heavy traffic. The country’s main industrial areas, especially Rayong province, continue to 
suffer toxic air pollution from benzene, which has constantly been higher than the standard level 
since 2012. 

Regarding Greenhouse Gas Emissions, an environmental issue of global concern, Thailand has 
announced its goal to reduce its greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions and implement measures 
regarding climate change after 2020 when the GHG emissions were set to be reduced by 20 to 25 
per cent in comparison with a business-as-usual level of GHG emissions in 2030, meaning that total 
GHG emissions are to be no more than 444 million tons of carbon dioxide equivalent. Although 
Thailand’s GHG emissions have tended to increase consistently since 2013 from various activities, 
it is still lower than a business-as-usual level. In 2018, Thailand’s GHG emissions were 16 per cent 
lower than a business-as-usual level, which was an unanticipated success based on the target set out 
in the 12th Plan, which targeted the GHG emissions to be lower than a business-as-usual level by 7 
per cent. In reviewing the sources of GHGs, it was found that the highest proportion — 74 per cent 
of total GHG emissions — came from energy use while 42 per cent from electricity generation, 23 
per cent from transportation and 20 per cent from industry and construction. The power and 
transport sectors will play a very important role in regulating Thailand’s GHG emissions, in 
conjunction with plans to enhance the CO2 absorption capacity of forests and land use, which 
currently has an annual capacity of 91.13 million tons of carbon dioxide equivalent. 

Nevertheless, in order to achieve Thailand’s carbon neutrality target by 2050 and realize 
Thailand’s intention to reach net zero GHG emission by 2065 — according to a statement by the 
Thai Prime Minister to the 26th Conference of the Parties (COP 26) of the United Nations 
Framework Convention on Climate Change (UNFCCC) — Thailand will have to consider more 
challenging tactical targets and lay down long-term strategic targets in order to reduce GHG 
emissions by 40 per cent, or GHG emissions of 222 million tons of carbon dioxide equivalent by 
2030. Presently, relevant agencies are reviewing targets as well as short-term and middle-term 
action plans in accordance with this stated intention. As current trends following advances in 


technology and the awareness of climate change increase demand for clean energy, Thailand will 
see a significant opportunity to reduce GHGs in the upcoming period. The public sector must 
therefore progress to prepare the country’s infrastructure to adequately and properly accommodate 
a low-carbon transition to renewable energy and electric vehicles. 

Hence, a major approach to developing natural resources and environment capital in the 
next phase is the structural transition from short-term economic outcomes to sustainable growth. 
National development in the future will no longer be able to detach environmental issues from 
economic and social activities. Consequently, clear targets must be set towards becoming an 
environmentally friendly circular economy and a low-carbon society along with consumer 
behavior modifications in order to reduce the use of raw materials and production waste so as to 
resolve environmental problems. 

The starting point of economic and social development in conjunction with the 
preservation of environmental balance in order to preserve the health of natural resources and 
environment and pass them on to the future generations in the long run can be achieved by 
promoting the circular economy with efficient and sustainable use of resources in tune with 
the carrying capacity of the ecosystem by: using scientific knowhow, technology and innovation 
to drive the Thai economy and society towards the most efficient use of resources by all sectors; 
providing measures to support investments in green technology and innovation; advocating the 
manufacturing sector to remodel its business operations to be in line with the circular economy 
approach in a low-carbon society; and encouraging local communities and farmers to participate 
in natural resources restoration while providing them with opportunities to enjoy tangible benefits 
from the circular economy so as to motivate them to change their economic behaviors and adopt 
sustainable modes of living. 

 Moreover, as most of the country's terrain lies in lowland areas and a large population relies 
heavily on agriculture in their livelihoods, Thailand faces high risks of being impacted by climate 
change. The country also has to tackle challenges from environmental imbalances from the 
repercussions of economic and physical development such as higher demands for water in urban 
areas and economic zones, climate change and more severe threats of natural disasters. These are 
management risks facing Thailand while the country still lacks the capability and efficiency in 
crisis management. Hence, it is necessary to rectify these issues by addressing the root causes in 
order to mitigate the risks and impacts of natural disasters and climate change. This can be 
achieved through the promotion of preventive measures against disasters in key areas, such as 
integrating relevant data for creating risk assessment maps in tandem with city planning; 
promoting the use of technology in risk management for natural disasters and climate change; 
educating the public and establishing participatory processes regarding disaster risk management; 
restoring and rehabilitating natural resources and ecosystems; and promoting international 
cooperation to collaboratively manage the risks of natural disasters and environmental challenges. 

2.4 Public Administration Dimension of the National Development Context 

 During the 12th Plan period, Thailand saw progress in public administration, which is 
considered a significant development of the country’s institutional capital. The public sector 
became more capable of responding to demands from various sectors through upgrading 
procedures and public service delivery into digital formats and developing information and data 
systems to support government agencies’ operations. Moreover, the Thai government was 
outstanding in its development of e-government and facilitation services for the business sector. 


In 2020, Thailand ranked 57th out of 193 countries in the United Nations’ E-Government 
Development Index (EGDI), an improvement from its previous rank of 77th in 2016. 

 On the other hand, Thailand still faces some obstacles hampering the efficient development 
of the public sector from reaching its potentials. According to a report by the International Institute 
for Management Development (IMD), even though Thailand was able to lower the personnel 
budget ratio in the annual national expenditure to a certain extent with more local administrative 
organizations awarded for their improved performance, key limitations to the public sector’s 
efficiency development still arise from structural problems. These are, for example, the immensity 
of the public administration body, outdated bureaucratic procedures and regulations that do not 
support the operations of the digital government, and a lack of systematic and integrated data 
system in digital format. This is because each agency primarily adheres to the legal framework of 
its duties and authority as well as the role of sole implementor rather than working cooperatively 
with other government agencies or sectors despite the fact that these agencies can deliver the same 
public services with higher quality and efficiency. There are redundancies in some agencies’ roles 
and missions. Overlapping agencies are not working in an integrated manner and do not share or 
develop information systems together. It is also difficult and takes a long time to dissolve or merge 
government agencies that have become unnecessary, and this hinders the reformation of 
government agencies’ missions to accommodate fast-changing contexts. Moreover, many outdated 
rules and regulations lead to operational delays, which forces people and the business sector to 
bear the high cost of capital investments — the real expenses and cost incurred by a loss of business 
opportunities could be as high as 133,816 million baht per year or 0.8 per cent of GDP. 

 Another key factor contributing to the successful enhancement of the public administration 
and institution capital is fiscal sustainability. Despite its good financial stability, Thailand’s long-
term fiscal management remains a cause for concern. The national expenditure budget structure 
during 2016-2020 exhibit a high level of fixed expenditure at an average of 74.8 per cent with a 
personnel expenditure ratio of 21.1 per cent on average, which is relatively high compared to other 
countries, while Thailand has a rather narrow tax base. This budget structure has an impact on the 
public sector’s operations. As Thailand becomes an ageing society, there will be more challenges 
to its fiscal sustainability because more budget will have to be allocated to public welfare and 
public health, while the declining number of working-age population will have adverse impacts on 
economic growth. The limitations of these structures will unavoidably affect revenue collection 
and the budget administration of the public sector. Moreover, risks from crises that might erupt 
and cause severe impacts to the country might lead to less-than-estimated net revenue whereas it 
has to roll out many financial and fiscal policies and measures to relieve financial burdens on 
people and businesses. As a result, the government would have fewer fiscal resources for national 
development. 

 Thailand’s social safety is another issue of concern. For security in life and property, the 
World Peace Index, rated by the Institute for Economics and Peace, ranked Thailand at 123th from 
a total of 163 countries, while the Global Cybersecurity Index (GCI) showed that Thailand 
degraded in rank, from 22th in 2017 to 44th in 2020, owing to limited potentials on both personnel 
and public agency levels that resulted in a failure to develop digital skills, knowledge and capacity 
to cope with cyber threats in a timely manner. It is therefore a challenge for the public sector to 
diminish present limitations and continue to improve public agencies’ performances. 

 Regarding institutional capital on the civil society level, which is indicative of social 
stability and strength, Thailand has developed a rather strong civil society network with a high 


level of volunteer operations and social assistance. This plays a very important role in coping with 
various crises and reflects a positive social force that is a good characteristic of Thai people. 
However, most agencies in the civil society sector still lack adequate support from the public sector 
and have limited connections to work together cooperatively. The current Thai social dynamism 
has a higher tendency for individualism with changes in social values from the widespread 
influences of online platforms and social media on people’s lifestyles, which leads to frequent 
social movements that demand the public sector to operate with transparency and efficiency. Such 
movements might easily spark social unrest if there is a social trend of mistrust towards the public 
sector. The public sector is therefore compelled to acknowledge a need to transform its 
administration and management so that it can connect with, and provide opportunities for, all 
sectors in the society, by inviting them to become partners in the national development effort to 
ensure greater participation and efficiency and to consequently restore trust in the public sector. 

 Hence, public administration development to strengthen the institutional capital during the 
13th Plan will focus on enhancing public administration’s quality and efficiency in order to 
promptly and substantially respond to people’s demands. The public sector then has to keep up 
with changes and provide quality services equally to every member of society. Connections 
between the central agency and local agencies shall be forged in an integrated system with good 
governance to maintain social stability and bolster the country’s institutional capital. 

 Public sector reform is a perpetual challenge for Thailand, particularly in an era when most 
people are well-aware of their rights. The public sector therefore must expedite the development 
of institutional mechanisms to support a transformation into digital government by deploying 
technology in providing public services to ensure speed, convenience and efficiency. At the same 
time, it must resort to information and participatory processes in formulating public policies and 
in public administration and management to keep up with changes and to respond promptly to 
changing situations, with the ultimate goal of enhancing the country’s capability in dealing with 
changes and risks in a new global context. Besides, the public sector must review its role and 
operational processes with an emphasis on developing its capacity for resilience, connectivity and 
openness, as well as committing to the digitization of information and services to give people and 
businesses convenient, speedy and economical access, while guaranteeing that the public sector’s 
services are of good quality and responsive to the demands and expectations of people and all 
sectors in an efficient, equitable and timely manner. To achieve these goals, the public sector’s 
human resources administration and management system needs to be modified to place a stress on 
equipping personnel with the necessary skills for digital public services. At the same time, outdated 
and unnecessary laws shall be revoked while laws and regulations supporting national 
development for future growth shall be formulated so that Thailand will have a modern, efficient, 
and responsive public sector that meets people’s expectations and can truly contribute to 
Thailand’s transformation. 

 

 


Part 3 

--------------------------------------------------- 

Objectives, Targets, and Development Milestones 

of the Thirteenth Economic and Social 

Development plan 

 


3.1 Objectives and Targets 

 During the five-year period of the 13th National Economic and Social Development Plan 
(2023-2027) Thailand needs to overcome several challenges in order to cope with risks from 
domestic and international contextual changes while enhancing its ability to take advantage of 
arising opportunities in a proper and timely manner. Therefore, development directions in the 13th 
Plan are set with an aim to transform the country into a “Progressive Society with Sustainable 
Value-Creating Economy” through comprehensive transformation at the structural, policy, and 
mechanism levels so as to foster a society that keeps pace with the world’s dynamics to enhance 
Thai people’s opportunities to perform self-development to their fullest potentials. Manufacturing 
and service activities will also be enhanced to promote value add based on environmental 
sustainability. 

 To pursue the objectives, the five main development targets of the 13th plan are 
determined as follows: 

 3.1.1 Restructuring the manufacturing and service sectors towards an innovation-
based economy: Enhancing competitiveness of key manufacturing and service sectors by 
stimulating value added enhancement through innovation, technology and creativity that 
corresponds to the development of a modern society and is environmental-friendly. Linking local 
economy and small entrepreneurs with the production value chain and target services. Developing 
and promoting enabling ecosystem that supports innovation, trade and investment. 

 3.1.2 Developing human capital for the new global era: Equipping Thai people with 
skills and traits that fit the modern world in terms of knowledge, behavioral skills and manners 
according to the norms of society. Expediting workforce enhancement to achieve quality that 
meets the needs of the labor market as well as to accommodate economic restructuring towards 
the higher-potential manufacturing and service sectors with higher productivity. Placing 
importance on developing social security and protection to enhance security in people’s life. 

 3.1.3 Creating a society of opportunities and fairness: Reducing economic and social 
disparity in terms of income, geography, wealth, and the business sector’s competition by 
supporting and enabling vulnerability groups and the underprivileged to have better opportunities 
towards socioeconomic mobility. Distributing economic opportunities. Providing equitable access 
to quality public services in every area. Promoting free and fair competition in the business sector. 

 3.1.4 Ensuring the transition of production and consumption towards 
sustainability: Reducing pollution together with improving natural resource utilization in line 
with ecosystem capacity. Pushing for a reduction of greenhouse gas emissions for Thailand to 
achieve carbon neutrality by 2050 and net zero greenhouse gas emissions by 2065. 

 3.1.5 Enhancing Thailand’s capability to cope with changes and risks in the new 
global context: Promoting preparedness for coping with and seizing opportunities arising from an 
ageing society, climate change, epidemics, and cyber threats. Developing basic infrastructure and 
institutional mechanisms conducive to digital transformation. Restructuring the public 
administrative system to be able to respond to changes in socioeconomic and technological 
contexts in a timely and efficient manner and with good governance. 

 Targets and indicators of each main aim are determined as follows: 

 


Main Target 

Indicators 

Current Condition 

2027 Target values 

Restructuring 
manufacturing and 
service sectors 
towards an 
innovation-based 
economy 

Gross National 
Income per capita 

US$7,097 
(THB227,000) 

in 2021 

US$9,300 
(THB300,000) 

Developing human 
capital for the new 
global era 

Human Achievement 
Index (HAI) 

(Covering 8 dimensions: 
health, education, 
employment, income, housing 
and living, family and 
neighborhood life, 
transportation and 
communication and 
participation) 


0.6501 

(Medium human 
achievement level) in 
2020 

0.7209 

(High human 
achievement level) 

Creating a society of 
opportunities and 
fairness 

Disparity in wellbeing 
(expenditure) between 
population groups in 
the highest echelon: 
10% (Top 10) and the 
lowest echelon: 40% 
(Bottom 40) 


5.68 times in 2020 

Lower than 5 times 

Ensuring the transition 
of production and 
consumption towards 
sustainability 

Greenhouse Gas 
(GHG) emissions 

Reduction of GHG 
emissions from 
energy & transport 
sectors in 2019 by 
17% from business-
as-usual (BAU) level 

Reduction of overall 
GHG emissions 
(energy and 
transport/ 
industry/waste 
management) by no 
less than 20% from 
business-as-usual 
(BAU) level 

Enhancing Thailand’s 
capability to cope 
with changes and risks 
under the new global 
context 

 

 

Composite index measuring resiliency which comprises of four sub-
indicators reflecting ability to cope with changes: 

1) International Health 
Regulations (IHR) 
capacity and health 
emergency 
preparedness 


85% in 2020 

90% 

With each core 
competency at no 
less than 80% 

2) Global Climate 
Risk Index (CRI) 

5-year average rank 
(2015-2019): 36.8 

5-year average rank 
(2023-2027): no 
less than 401 

3) Digital 
Competitiveness Rank 

38th in 2021 

30th 

4) Government 
Effectiveness Rank 

20th in 2021 

15th 



1 High rank indicates high level of climate risk 


 Indicators and target values of each main target are collective indicators achievable through 
collaborative implementations of various development milestones and will be applied in the 
evaluation of overall achievement. 

3.2 Development Milestones 

 In order to translate the main targets into a clearer vision of development agendas that 
promote operation integration among agencies and sectors so as to achieve tangible outcomes, 13 
development milestones have been formulated in the 13th Plan to identify what Thailand wishes 
to “be” or to “have.” These milestones will emphasize development issues that are of the highest 
priorities in transforming the country into a “Progressive Society and Sustainable Value-creating 
Economy”. 

 The 13 development milestones are categorized in 4 development areas as follows: 

3.2.1 
Targeted manufacturing and service sectors 

Milestone 1: 
Thailand is a leading country in high-value agricultural produce and 
processed agricultural products. 

Milestone 2: 
Thailand is a sustainable quality-oriented tourist destination. 

Milestone 3: 
Thailand is the world’s major electric vehicle manufacturing base. 

Milestone 4: 
Thailand is a high-value medical and wellness hub. 

Milestone 5: 
Thailand is the region’s key strategic trade, investment and logistics 
gateway. 

Milestone 6: 
Thailand is ASEAN’s hub for digital and smart electronics industry. 

3.2.2 Socioeconomic opportunity and equality 

Milestone 7: 
Thailand has strong, high-potential and competitive SMEs. 

Milestone 8: 
Thailand has smart cities as well as safe and livable regions with 
sustainable growth. 

Milestone 9: 
Thailand has less intergenerational poverty and adequate, 
appropriate social protection. 

3.2.3 Natural resources and environmental sustainability 

Milestone 10: 
Thailand is a circular economy and low-carbon society. 

Milestone 11: 
Thailand can mitigate the risks and impacts of natural disaster and 
climate change. 

3.2.4 Key enablers for Thailand’s transformation 

Milestone 12: 
Thailand has a high-capability workforce committed to lifelong 
learning and responsive to future development context. 

Milestone 13: 
Thailand has a modern, efficient, and responsive public sector. 

 

 


 

Picture 3. Alignment of Development Milestones and Main Targets 

 

 

 

 


Part 4 

--------------------------------------------------- 

Strategic Plan Per Development Milestone 

 

 

 


Milestone 1: 
Thailand is a Leading Country in High-Value Agricultural Produce and 
Processed Agricultural Products 

1. 
Past Development Situation 

Recent development in the Thai agricultural sector has mainly focused on the production 
of raw materials for downstream industries and exports as a means to generate inbound revenues 
achieved through expanding agricultural areas, improving inputs as well as continuously 
developing and applying technology. These measures succeeded in increasing production 
efficiency to a certain level. In 2019, the agricultural sector and related process industries 
contributed 1,477,589 million baht to GDP, with economic activities related to agricultural 
production and the food and beverage industry accounting for 74.5 per cent of GDP from the 
agricultural sector and related process industries. 

Although the Thai government has promoted agricultural production and development 
throughout the supply chain, some limitations remain in the enhancement of Thailand’s 
agricultural development. These include: 1) Irrigation: 83 per cent of agricultural lands lie outside 
irrigated areas; 2) Farming in inappropriate areas: 30 per cent of farmland is inappropriate for 
farming and has inappropriate soil quality; 3) Decrease in farmer land holdings: farmers now own 
only 48 per cent of agricultural land; 4) Air pollution caused by the open burning of crop residues; 
5) Lack of clustering along the value chain among agricultural institutions and networks to increase 
negotiating power and reduce operational costs; 6) Mismatches between product quantity and 
quality for both direct consumption and industrial processes; 7) Production and exports of raw 
materials are low-value processed products and non-value added products; and 8) Rising average 
age of the agricultural workforce. 

Meanwhile, external factors holding back Thailand's agricultural development and growth 
include: 1) Intensifying natural disasters, whether droughts, floods or storms, as well as infectious 
diseases of animals and plants; 2) Price fluctuations in agricultural products due to seasonality and 
global economic conditions; and 3) Increasing use of non-tariff social measures, such as labor and 
environmental standards in international and bilateral trade. 

However, rising demand for food, more diverse agricultural raw materials and residues, 
and more eco-friendly awareness among manufacturers and consumers are opportunities for 
Thailand's agricultural sector to shift from “low-value quantity-oriented” to “high-value quality-
oriented” production and turn Thailand into a leading producer of high-value agricultural produce 
and processed agricultural products. While considering the preparedness of the Thai agricultural 
sector in achieving this transition, there are certain areas that need to be examined, addressed, and 
improved in order to reduce restrictions and facilitate the production processes of high-value 
agricultural produce and processed agricultural products. These areas are: (Upstream) 1) Low 
usage of specific modern agricultural technology and innovation; 2) Few linkages among vast 
agriculture databases and lack of application in agricultural management; 3) Limited knowledge 
and understanding on creating added value from eco-friendly farm produce such as commercial 
tree plantations, agrotourism etc.; 4) Crop insurance system does not sufficiently attract farmers to 
voluntarily purchase crop insurance. (Midstream) 5) Few patents in food technology and 
processing innovations despite the establishment of “Food Innopolis” and the high volume of 
research and development investment; 6) Low levels of preparedness and long delays in building 
food safety and quality assurance infrastructure in order to standardize and register new quality-
focused food products; (Downstream) 7) The unclear classification between high-value 


agricultural and processed agricultural markets such as medical food, healthy food, herbal extracts, 
bio-chemicals etc.; 8) Limited numbers of central markets for agricultural produce and processed 
agricultural products; (Enabling factors) 9) Inappropriate water demand and supply management 
in terms of sourcing, allocation, water resources development and rehabilitation as well as water 
management techniques, including wastewater treatment, coupled with an unmet water need of 70 
billion cubic meters and low capability to manage the risks of flood and drought; 10) A variety of 
agricultural safety standards and accreditation systems have different requirements, resulting in 
high costs when exporting to destination markets with its own standards; 11) Insufficient and 
ineffective system to collect, transport, and distribute agricultural products, which needs 
improvement to ensure modern and prompt handling; and 12) Inefficient mechanisms to link 
relevant parties in the supply chain. 

2. 
Development Goals 

2.1 
Connections between Milestone 1 and the main targets and goals of the 13th National 
Economic and Social Development Plan and the National Strategy 

Milestone 1, whereby Thailand is a leading country in high-value agricultural produce 
and processed agricultural products, is aligned with all of the five targets in the 13th Plan, namely: 
1) Target 1: Restructuring the manufacturing and service sectors towards an innovation-
based economy by enhancing competitiveness and enabling local economies and small enterprises 
to connect to the value chain of the target manufacturing and services sectors; 2) Target 2: 
Developing human capital for the new global era by creating a quality workforce in line with 
the needs of the target manufacturing sector; 3) Target 3: Creating a society of opportunities 
and fairness by reducing inequalities in terms of both income and economic security as well as 
increasing opportunities for businesses, while enabling vulnerable and marginalized groups to 
have better opportunities in economic and social mobility; 4) Target 4: Ensuring the transition 
of production and consumption towards sustainability through efficient use of natural 
resources in manufacturing and consumption and within ecological limits; and 5) Target 5: 
Enhancing Thailand’s capability to cope with changes and risks under the new global context 
by overcoming significant future threats, in particular climate change, epidemics/emerging 
diseases, and cyber threats. 

Milestone 1 is also consistent with the following three areas of the National Strategy: 

1) 
Competitiveness enhancement with the following goals: 1) Thailand becomes a 
developed country with stable and sustainable economic growth; and 2) Thailand’s national 
competitiveness is increased as per the National Strategy’s master plan on agriculture, which 
focuses on raising manufacturing safety standards, leveraging the outstanding and unique quality 
of Thailand’s agricultural produce and biological diversity to add value to agricultural produce, 
and using modern technology and innovation in production and farm management. 

2) 
Social Cohesion and Equity with the goal of creating fairness and reducing 
inequalities in all dimensions as per the National Strategy’s master plan on local economies, which 
focuses on agricultural clusters with a structure to concretely distributes income to local economy 
and community, and local economy drivers to bring together all sectors, including the private 
sector, civil society and local communities to develop and strengthen communities. 

3) 
Eco-Friendly Development and Growth with the goal of ensuring balanced 
utilization and economic growth of the natural resource and environmental base by balancing 


development with ecosystem capacity as per the National Strategy’s master plan on sustainable 
growth, which focuses on growth with an emphasis on sustainable utilization, conservation, 
maintenance, rehabilitation and regeneration of the natural resource and environmental base 
without excessive use and pollution beyond the self-healing capacity of the ecosystem, as well as 
eco-friendly manufacturing and consumption. 

2.2 
Goals, Indicators, and Targets 

Target 1 
To increase value added of agricultural produce and processed agricultural 
products. 

Indicator 1.1 
National GDP in agriculture grows by 4.5 per cent per annum. 

Indicator 1.2 
Total net farmer household income is not lower than 537,000 baht per household 
by the end of the plan. 

Indicator 1.3 
Organic agriculture areas increase to 2.0 million rai and Good Agricultural 
Practices (GAP)-certified agriculture areas increase to 2.5 million rai by the end 
of the plan. 

Indicator 1.4 
Inappropriate farming areas decrease by 10 per cent by the end of the plan. 

Target 2 
To develop infrastructure and management system to ensure quality, food 
security, and sustainability of the agricultural sector. 

Indicator 2.1 
The agricultural sector has an average total factor productivity (TFP) of 1.5 per 
cent by the end of the plan. 

Indicator 2.2 
There are at least two central markets for agricultural produce each in the 
Northern, Northeastern, Southern Regions, and one each in the Central and 
Eastern Regions by the end of the plan. 

Indicator 2.3 
There are at least 40 billion cubic meters per year of water flowing into reservoirs 
across the country by the end of the plan. 

Indicator 2.4 
Efficiency of the irrigation system is not lower than 75 per cent by the end of the 
plan. 

Indicator 2.5 
At least 20 per cent of non-agricultural irrigated areas reuse water by the end of 
the plan. 

Indicator 2.6 
There are at least 4,000 sub-districts with a capacity to reduce flood and drought 
risks and establish community water management systems by the end of the plan. 

Target 3 
To enhance the capacity and role of farmers as economic partners in the supply 
chain with a proper and fair share of benefits. 

Indicator 3.1 
The number of Level-1 agricultural cooperatives according to the cooperative 
strength criteria increases by at least 18 per cent by the end of the plan. 

Indicators 3.2 
The number of Level-1 farmers’ groups according to the cooperative strength 
criteria increases by at least 6 per cent by the end of the plan. 

Indicator 3.3 
The number of community enterprises with “good” rankings according to the 
community enterprise strength criteria increases by at least 35 per cent by the end 
of the plan. 


Indicator 3.4 
The number of agricultural entrepreneurs increases by 4,000 per annum. 

 


3. 
Strategy Map 

 

 


4. 
Development Strategies 

Strategy 1 
Promoting the targeted application of technology and innovation to enhance 
agricultural processing and its value add: 

Sub-strategy 1.1 
Supporting targeted research and development of technology and 
innovation in agricultural production in collaboration with private sector to apply in particular 
market appropriately. 

Sub-strategy 1.2 
Promoting and implementing the application of technology and 
innovation research, conducted by research institutes, universities and vocational schools, the 
private sector, and agricultural organizations, to ensure the beneficial use of research and 
participation of both technology developers and users. 

Strategy 2 
Encouraging the production and market expansion of high-value agricultural 
produce and processed agricultural products such as safety-guaranteed produce, 
herbal extracts, medical food, alternative foods, functional foods, bioenergy, 
biomaterials and biochemicals, and plant-based and insect-based proteins: 

Sub-strategy 2.1 
Promoting the development and commercialization of high-value 
processed agricultural products which have marketing potentials through a comprehensive 
roadmap for developing and promoting high-value processed agricultural products per product 
category. This support could bring about systematic, continuous and efficient development and 
promotion. Moreover, gross domestic product (GDP) data on agricultural processing product 
should be developed for formulating further support. 

Sub-strategy 2.2 
Formulating and implementing a development and promotion 
roadmap for the production and use of biological products. These products are made from 
agricultural raw materials, residues from the agricultural production process, and other byproducts. 
Examples of products include bioenergy, biomaterials and biochemicals, organic fertilizers, 
vaccines, biotics, carbon credits and carbon sinks. 

Sub-strategy 2.3 
Encouraging farmers to utilize diverse information, such as 
scientific knowledge, technology and innovation in the production process, agricultural database 
and local identity in analyzing, planning and improving products, productivity and agricultural 
processing. The local potentials and markets demand should be considered in order to apply an 
appropriate improving approach by farmers. 

Sub-strategy 2.4 
Encouraging a transition from farming in inappropriate 
cultivated areas, of particular commodities, to producing agricultural commodity which can 
create high value-added agricultural products. 

Sub-strategy 2.5 
Raising consumer awareness to promote the consumption of 
agricultural and processed produce with safety, high quality, and certified standards in order to 
stimulate market activities for extensive quality products. 

Sub-strategy 2.6 
Encouraging government agencies to consume quality 
agricultural produce and processed agricultural products such as agricultural produce for 
hospital, school and prison use, as well as medical food. 

Strategy 3 
Expanding eco-friendly and high value-added sustainable farming models based 
on domestic success cases, such as farming related BCG economy, good agricultural 


practice, agroforestry, organic farming, agrotourism, artisanal fishery, legal fishing, 
and good labor practice: 


Sub-strategy 3.1 
Promoting sustainable agriculture with consideration to 
environmental impacts and nature-based development through the sustainable protection, 
management and rehabilitation of nature/ecosystems in order to improve the quality of people’s 
lives and benefit biological diversity, particularly through sustainable agricultural practices such 
as reforestation, agroforestry, elimination of open burning, legal fisheries and good labor practices. 

Sub-strategy 3.2 
Supporting necessary inputs to ensure further adoption of eco-
friendly, high value-added agricultural models. Examples of input include biological substances 
and organic fertilizers. The data on output volumes and use of biological substances should be 
continuously collected for further suitable measures. 

Sub-strategy 3.3 
Ensuring the management, conservation, breeding and nurseries 
of endemic plants, aquatic animals and livestock to naturally increase agricultural outputs. 

Sub-strategy 3.4 
Expanding on successful models to efficiently manage 
agricultural production in line with local resource capacity. 

Strategy 4 
Developing water management system for agriculture to ensure a balanced 
demand and supply as well as reuse: 

Sub-strategy 4.1 Advocating for an expansion of watershed forests/economic forests 
to generate income in areas inappropriate for farming, as well as increasing natural water volume 
for adequate use by the entire system. 

Sub-strategy 4.2 Urgently developing and rehabilitating irrigation and water 
distribution systems in irrigated areas, together with developing and managing water sources 
outside irrigated areas and community water sources, as well as proper sediment management to 
increase the water retention capability of reservoirs. These implementations require cooperation 
between local administrative organizations and relevant government agencies. 

Sub-strategy 4.3 Ensuring appropriate sediment management to increase the water 
retention capability of reservoirs. The management include the sediment filtration, as well as the 
planted soil-covering or anti-erosion to reduce the soil erosion along the water area. 

Sub-strategy 4.4 Managing and planning for systematic and balanced water 
utilization, as well as establishing and disseminating knowledge on efficient water utilization, such 
as a reuse of water. 

Strategy 5 
Supporting private sector investment in developing central and online markets 
for agricultural produce including livestock and fishery products: 

Sub-strategy 5.1 Developing compelling supporting factors to encourage private 
sector investment in developing central, regional and community markets. 

Sub-strategy 5.2 Encouraging continuous data collection on price of agricultural 
commodities regarding the different market location to compare the price between regional and 
central markets. 

Sub-strategy 5.3 Enhancing farmers’ knowledge and skills to enable direct online 
trade of their produce including crops, catches and livestock. 


 

Strategy 6 
Supporting insurance and quality assurance systems for agricultural and its 
processed products that are accessible and affordable to farmers: 

Sub-strategy 6.1 Enhancing the efficiency and varieties of insurance systems suitable 
for diverse agricultural production patterns. 

Sub-strategy 6.2 Facilitating a reduction of farmers’ transaction fees regarding 
standard accreditation throughout the supply chain to increase access and to incentivize farmers 
to produce products with higher standards. 

Sub-strategy 6.3 Encouraging the private sector’s role in linking certified 
agricultural produce to the value-added agricultural product supply chain. 

Sub-strategy 6.4 Negotiating/concluding agreements with relevant organizations to 
ensure that Thailand's standards for agricultural produce and products are internationally 
acknowledged. 

Sub-strategy 6.5 Accelerating the development of National Quality Infrastructure 
including quality testing processes necessary for the development of high value-added agricultural 
produce and processed agricultural products. 

Strategy 7 
Improving the efficiency of farm management and post-harvest activities to 
reduce costs and increase the value of agricultural produce: 

Sub-strategy 7.1 Promoting the role of agricultural institutions 
(cooperatives/farmers’ collectives/social enterprises) as agricultural business units in improving 
farm management efficiency, post-harvest activities and delivery to customers so as to reduce costs 
and increase the values of farm produce. 

Sub-strategy 7.2 Developing basic infrastructure and facilities to collect and 
transport agricultural produce in order to link outputs throughout the agricultural product supply 
chain. 

Sub-strategy 7.3 Developing data collection system for farm loss as a baseline for 
future assessment. 

Strategy 8 
Promoting farmers’ land ownership and conservation of appropriate 
agricultural areas as agricultural production bases: 

Sub-strategy 8.1 Promoting and supporting systematic land allocation to farmers 
through existing mechanisms, such as land allocation to communities as per government policies 
and land allocation by the Agricultural Land Reform Office. 

Sub-strategy 8.2 Protecting high-potential agricultural areas and increasing access 
to cultivated areas for farmers, as well as determining appropriate boundaries for agricultural use. 

Strategy 9 
Developing an agricultural database and data repository system and 
encouraging the effective use of data: 

Sub-strategy 9.1 Developing a connected agricultural data repository with public 
access to be adopted as a basis for boosting the efficiency of agricultural production and value-
add creation. The crucial data include 1) natural resources (e.g. water, soil, forests, the sea, etc.), 
2) agriculture, such as the appropriateness of agricultural production in a given area, farmer 


registration, etc., 3) marketing of agricultural produce and processed agricultural products (e.g. 
price trends, markets, etc.), and 4) technology and innovation. 

Sub-strategy 9.2 Developing platforms and applications for accessing data 
repositories to allow the use of agriculture-related data in classifying farmers’ production patterns 
and capability. The application could ensure that approaches and other measures established to 
develop the agricultural sector are aligned with different farmer capabilities and local potentials 
for cultivating agriculture produce. 

Strategy 10 
Encouraging the food security management system: 

Sub-strategy 10.1 Promoting community access to food security in terms of quantity, 
nutrition, as well as diverse, safe, sufficient food security reserves. The food security reserve model 
for community should be encouraged to establish as a role model for further implementation. 

Sub-strategy 10.2 Preparing for agricultural product and food distribution 
management in crisis situations. 

Strategy 11 
Enhancing the capacities of farmers and agricultural institutions: 

Sub-strategy 11.1 Developing and extending farmers’ knowledge and skills in farm 
management, occupational health and safety, and digital agricultural business to elevate farmers’ 
capability in order to become smart farmers. Smart farming has high potentials capability in 
enhancing agricultural production systems and its value-added creation in line with local 
conditions and market demands. 

Sub-strategy 11.2 Strengthening and enhancing capability of agricultural 
cooperatives, farmers’ collectives and community enterprises to operate value-adding businesses. 
Supporting the role of local private sector and educational institutions, including vocational 
schools and higher education institutions as a service provider, technology transfers, and business 
consultants so as to enable effective adaptation and scaling up of agricultural businesses. 

Sub-strategy 11.3 Reviewing and revising cooperative-related laws and regulations 
to keep up with current trends while strengthening cooperatives, such as revising accounting 
systems and financial auditing to improve speed, transparency and independence in order to 
prevent and address problems in a timely manner as well as to build public confidence in the 
cooperative system. 

Strategy 12 
Developing mechanisms to connect various parties, including the private sector, 
government agencies, farmers’ group and local academics, to forge economic 
partnerships in agricultural development throughout the supply chain: 

Sub-strategy 12.1 
Supporting the role of agricultural organizations/councils in 
collaborative mechanisms among government agencies and the private and academic sectors in 
each province to ensure that the production and business operations of farmers in particular areas 
are in line with those areas’ potentials, the private sector’s needs, provincial government agencies’ 
missions, and the expertise of local educational institutions. This collaboration is to establish 
economic partnerships based on the sharing of knowledge, data, skills and benefits in an equitable 
manner and commensurate with roles, duties and responsibilities. 

Sub-strategy 12.2 
Promoting the role of the private sector as an economic partner 
in agricultural businesses with agricultural institutions and individual farmers to foster 


collaboration and enhance the efficiency of the production process in line with local potentials and 
market demands. This benefit-sharing should be appropriate and equitable among the partners. 

 

 


Milestone 2: Thailand is a Sustainable Quality-Oriented Tourist Destination 

1. Past Development Situation 

As an important source of direct and indirect income, the tourism industry has played a 
vital role in Thailand’s economy, accounting for 2.99 trillion baht (18 per cent of GDP) and 
employing 8.3 million workers in 2019. The industry continued to see steady growth with an 
annual revenue growth of 2.3 per cent between 2015 and 2019. However, such growth was mainly 
due to the average 5.6 per cent annual increase in tourist numbers, while the average spending per 
tourist grew at a decelerating speed and the average duration of stay also decreased. As a result, 
Thailand’s tourism industry has faced challenges in sustainability due to quantitative rather than 
qualitative growth. In terms of income distribution, it has been found that 90 per cent of tourism-
related revenues concentrate in the main tourist destinations with little distribution to secondary 
tourist destinations. In particular, approximately 98 per cent of revenues from international tourist 
spending is incurred at primary tourist destinations. 

 Since 2020, the COVID-19 pandemic has caused a severe contraction of the tourism 
industry as revenues declined by 71 per cent since 2019 to 0.79 trillion baht in 2020. Despite the 
government’s domestic stimulation packages including “We Travel Together” and “Kamlangjai” 
programs, the tourism sector has yet to recover because the structure of the Thai tourism industry 
heavily relies on international tourists (63.9 per cent). In addition, the industry’s contraction 
heavily impacted tourism-related businesses due to a decline in tourist numbers and a liquidity 
crisis. The government has therefore implemented urgent rehabilitation and remedy measures to 
increase liquidity, including low-interest loans and a debt moratorium, but most tourism-related 
businesses are in the informal sector and, as a result, cannot adequately access these measures. As 
the pandemic persists, the economic outlook of Thailand’s tourism industry remains uncertain. 

 Thailand's tourism still holds advantages over rival countries due to the country’s 
strategic location at the center of the region, its natural and cultural diversity, and the 
friendly nature of Thai people. According to the World Economic Forum, Thailand ranked 36th 
out of 117 countries in the Travel and Tourism Development Index 2021: Rebuilding for a 
Sustainable and Resilient Future, dropping one position from the 35th rank out of 117 countries in 
2019. The 2021 report indicated that Thailand’s significant strengths lied in air transport 
infrastructure (13th), natural resources (14th), and non-leisure resources (16th). However, certain 
challenges remain to be addressed. These are environmental sustainability (97th), safety and 
security (92th), and prioritization of travel and tourism (88th). These weaknesses are important 
issues for tourism over the coming period, which will be driven by the key trends of 1) health and 
hygiene-related concerns, 2) an ageing society, 3) advanced technology in tourism, and 4) 
environmental awareness and sustainability. 

 Sustainable development of the tourism industry must take into consideration internal and 
external risk factors. Based on the current tourism situations, trends and past problems, Thailand 
faces many challenges which need to be addressed in order to achieve the set goals, namely: 1) 
create added value to increase tourist spending by prioritizing quality over quantity 2) enhance 
tourism competitiveness, especially for secondary tourist destinations and small enterprises to 
attract more domestic travelers, and ensure efficient distribution of tourism revenues, 3) 
sustainable tourism management with regards to cleanliness and safety standards as well as social, 
natural and environmental aspects, and 4) develop enabling factors to ensure sustainable tourism, 
in particular preparedness of the workforce and businesses to adapt to changes, amendment of the 


obsolete/obstructive laws and regulations as well as the use of technology and data to efficiently 
develop and promote tourism. 

2. Development Goals 

2.1 Connections between Milestone 2 and the main targets and goals of the 13th National 
Economic and Social Development Plan and the National Strategy 

Milestone 2, whereby Thailand is a sustainable quality-oriented tourist destination, is 
aligned with the National Strategy in the area of competitiveness enhancement with a focus on 
diversifying the tourism products and experiences to maintain the country’s status as a world-class 
tourist destination attracting all classes of visitors and increase the proportion of high-quality 
tourists. It is also connected with four targets in the 13th Plan, namely, 1) Target 1: Restructuring 
the manufacturing and service sectors to become an innovation-based economy by enhancing 
tourism competitiveness and enabling local economies and small enterprises to connect to the 
value chain; 2) Target 2: Developing human capitals for the future; 3) Target 3: Creating a 
society of opportunities and fairness; and 4) Target 4: Transitioning production and 
consumption towards sustainability through efficient and sustainable management of tourism 
resources. 

2.2 Goals, Indicators and Targets 

Target 1 To transform Thailand's tourism into high quality-oriented tourism with links to 
other high-potential industries and services. 

Indicator 1.1 Spending per day of domestic and international tourists increases by 10 per cent 
per year on average. 

Indicator 1.2 Thailand’s overall Travel and Tourism Development Index (TTDI) ranking 
improves to the 25th rank or better; safety and security to the 50th rank or better; 
environmental sustainability to the 50th rank or better; health and hygiene to the 
50th rank or better; and cultural resources and business travels to the 25th rank or 
better. 

Indicator 1.3 Tourist satisfaction level improves by 0.05 points per year. 

Indicator 1.4 The number of repeated visitors increases by 15 per cent per year on average. 

Target 2 To restructure the country’s tourism sector to lean towards domestic travelers, 
and to improve the distribution of economic opportunities. 

Indicator 2.1 Tourism revenues of all secondary destinations (weighted average of all secondary 
destinations) increases by 10 per cent per year on average. 

Indicator 2.2 Revenues from domestic tourists increase by 10 per cent per year. 

Indicator 2.3 The number of Community-based Social Enterprises increases by 50 communities 
per year on average. 

Target 3 To ensure that Thailand’s tourism sector is sustainably managed in all aspects. 

Indicator 3.1 The number of enterprises and destinations with Thailand Tourism Standard 
certification increases by 10 per cent per year. 

Indicator 3.2 The number of tourism communities with Thailand Tourism Standard certification 
increases by no less than 50 communities per year. 


3. Strategy Map 

 




4. Development Strategies 

Strategy 1 Promoting the development of high-value tourism activities, products, and 
services: 

Sub-strategy 1.1 Developing “Happy Model” tourism as per the revised National 
Economic Reform Plan. Supporting the collection of knowledge and data on geographical, 
biological and cultural diversity as well as local lifestyles with unique identities to create value 
add in the form of products and services for high-quality tourism, thus generating commercial 
benefits, increasing the capacity of businesses, and ensuring good experiences and quality of life 
for tourists as well as local populations at tourist destinations. 

Sub-strategy 1.2 Promoting the development of quality tourism with high growth 
potentials including 1) “Shopping Paradise” initiative: by encouraging the launch of national 
souvenir groups as well as tax reduction policies for importing certain classes of luxury goods, 
establishing duty-free areas as an extension of the Phuket Sandbox to stimulate spending and 
revenue distribution to small entrepreneurs; 2) Maritime tourism including pleasure cruises, yachts 
and river cruises: by formulating a clear development plan in collaboration with the private sector 
to identify locations for marinas both as home ports and transit ports, for cruises in areas with 
potentials along the Gulf of Thailand and the Andaman Sea such as Pattaya and Phuket, together 
with creating tourist spots in connection with the marinas to substantially stimulate private 
investment and revenue distribution; 3) Promoting man-made tourist attractions, business travel 
and MICE (Meetings, Incentives, Conferences and Exhibitions) tourism to boost domestic and 
international investments, business travels as well as other travel styles for high purchasing-power 
groups such as senior citizens, retirees, long-term visitors, and digital nomads. 

Strategy 2 Promoting and enhancing tourism industry for general tourists: 

Sub-strategy 2.1 Encouraging businesses and startups to adopt creative economy 
concepts, cultural uniqueness and technology and innovation in developing and creating value 
add to tourism. Promoting soft power as a driving force for tourism. Supporting research and 
development as well as the use of information technology and innovation in enhancing services, 
marketing and ease of travel. 

Sub-strategy 2.2 Developing quality tourist attractions and services at high-
potential secondary destinations and spreading a variety of tourist routes thoroughly to boost 
domestic travel and attract quality tourists from around the world to local tourist destinations. 
Supporting clustering according to local potentials. 

Sub-strategy 2.3 Supporting community-based tourism and tourism in secondary 
cities with special attention on development based on biological and cultural diversity. 
Encouraging the concept of generating income from natural and cultural conservation. Building 
ecotourism knowledge. Developing environmental management systems at tourist destinations to 
promote community and cultural protection. Establishing networks and providing funding to 
incubate communities into social enterprises and startups to improve revenue distribution. 

Sub-strategy 2.4 Promoting private sector collaboration and engagement in 
developing community tourist destinations and in determining directions on local tourism 
development, security and safety, and maintenance of tourist destinations to ensure good 
conditions. 


Strategy 3 Raising tourism service and management quality to international standards: 

Sub-strategy 3.1 Encouraging sustainable tourism management under the BCG 
(Bio-Circular-Green) Economy concept by developing tourist area management systems in line 
with the ecosystem’s capacity and supporting eco-friendly enterprises. Promoting the use of 
electric vehicles and other measures to reduce greenhouse gas (GHG) emission in the tourism 
industry. 

Sub-strategy 3.2 Raising the management quality of tourist destinations and 
related businesses to international standards especially in relation to security, cleanliness, fairness 
and sustainable environmental management, such as hygiene measures based on emerging tourism 
approaches so as to steer towards high-quality tourism as well as “white tourism” standards. 
Improving basic and advanced quality standards of tourism-related enterprises and small 
businesses with appropriate service levels. Incentivizing entrepreneurs for accreditation, and 
pushing for support from government agencies and the private sector for accredited enterprises. 

 Sub-strategy 3.3 Advocating for the collection of tourism fees to contribute to the 
“Thailand’s Tourism Promotion Fund” as a circulating capital to develop tourism, increase 
competitiveness, build community skills in management, marketing and conservation of tourism-
related resources, as well as provide insurance for foreign tourists while travelling in the country. 

Strategy 4 Supporting tourism personnel’s skills and capacity development to achieve 
quality and sustainability for high-quality tourism such as heartfelt services, 
understanding and pride in local cultures, language skills, digital communications, 
storytelling, cleanliness and security, and environmental protection: 

Sub-strategy 4.1 Enhancing the skills and capacity of tourism personnel in line 
with the needs of businesses and sustainable high-quality tourism by focusing on developing 
competency requirements for each job position, boosting entrepreneurs’ business efficiency and 
good governance as well as developing online learning courses to strengthen their knowledge in 
financial management, marketing, tourism management, and digital technology including effective 
use of data for improvement. 

Sub-strategy 4.2 Encouraging and facilitating personnel in the tourism sector and 
associated services to register on the government database and tourism employment registration 
system by easing the procedures, increasing convenience, and offering incentives. 

Sub-strategy 4.3 Establishing appropriate guidelines on responsible tourism at 
tourist destinations for businesses, personnel, and tourists. 

Strategy 5 Reviewing and revising outdated laws, regulations and procedures which 
impede business operations and license application of small enterprises to 
encourage a transition towards sustainable high-quality tourism: 

Sub-strategy 5.1 Reviewing and revising laws and regulations related to 
government budget and public procurement to facilitate private sector engagement in the 
investment and development of tourist destinations in collaboration with communities and the 
public sector. Enabling public procurement of products and services from local communities with 
appropriate environmental, safety, and hygienic standards. Encouraging the development of 
monitoring systems to oversee the implementation of community development programs by all 
sectors, including the public, private, academic sectors and civil society, to eliminate redundancy 
and ensure development efficiency and continuity. 


Sub-strategy 5.2 Eliminating outdated legal constraints and regulations 
obstructing business operations and licensing of tourism-related businesses through technology 
exploitation, in particular for accommodation and related businesses with an emphasis on covering 
small businesses. Providing ease of process to encourage small entrepreneurs to register and join 
the legal framework and government database to enable them to link with high-quality tourism. 
Ensuring strict, efficient and unbiased enforcement of relevant guidelines and laws together with 
revising laws to encourage environmental responsibility from tourism-related businesses. 

Sub-strategy 5.3 Reviewing and revising laws and regulations which obstruct 
tourism technology, particularly in relation to online travel agencies and sharing economy 
platforms to increase compliance, convenience, and safety for tourists and surrounding 
communities as well as to facilitate future development. 

Strategy 6 Upgrading tourism information systems to smart tourism systems to facilitate 
access and use by tourists, businesses, and government agencies: 

Sub-strategy 6.1 Harmonizing the in-depth tourism data collection system for 
consistency, reliability and recentness to enable its use by enterprises for business operations and 
by government agencies in policymaking regarding effective tourism development. 

Sub-strategy 6.2 Supporting linkages between government and private sector 
databases using private sector-developed applications, such as TAGTHAI, to connect platforms 
and ensure ease of travel for tourists especially by providing useful information on visa, 
immigration, VAT refunds, emergency warnings, etc., and to further develop a central application 
platform for Thailand's tourism industry with a large central database open to all sectors to 
facilitate tourist behavior analysis. Pressing for the development of a national tourism platform. 

Sub-strategy 6.3 Developing a large-scale tourism database integrating all 
partner agencies, including the Tourism Authority of Thailand, Tourism Council of Thailand and 
Board of Trade of Thailand, which enables the public and diverse business sectors to mutually 
establish a cross-sectoral in-depth knowledge base which allows an effective use of data to search, 
study, analyze, understand, plan and conduct marketing activities to reach high-potential 
customers. 

 

 


Milestone 3: Thailand is the World’s Important Electric Vehicle Manufacturing Base 

1. Past Development Situation 

Thailand is one of the world’s important automobile manufacturers, being ASEAN’s number 
one and the world’s 11th biggest automobile manufacturer/exporter in 2019 with a total export 
value of 1,300,561 million baht, while the world’s top automobile manufacturers are China, the 
United States, Japan, Germany and India, in that order. Thailand’s export markets for passenger 
cars include Australia, Vietnam, the Philippines, China and Mexico, respectively, and the markets 
for pickups, buses and trucks are Australia, the Philippines, New Zealand, Saudi Arabia and 
Vietnam, respectively. The automotive industry is one of the key drivers of Thailand's economy, 
with a manufacturing capacity of 2 million units per year and involving 13,920 operators and 
345,000 employments. However, the world’s automotive demands are shifting towards electric 
vehicles (EVs) partially due to advanced battery technologies, which lower prices and increase the 
efficiency of electric vehicles, in addition a global trend towards low-carbon societies. 

The Thai government has promoted the next-generation automotive industry by emphasizing 
an expansion of the current industry onto more advanced technology and innovation together with 
determining key supportive measures for EVs, such as foreign and domestic market stimulation 
measures, supportive measures for demand stimulation and transition towards EV manufacturing, 
and systematic infrastructure preparedness measures. As a result, the number of applications for 
investment promotion in EVs and battery parts increases. In addition, the government has also 
supported the development of nationwide infrastructure, particularly charging stations. According 
to the Electric Vehicle Association of Thailand (EVAT), Thailand has 664 charging stations with 
1,450 ordinary chargers and 774 fast chargers (2,224 in total) as of 11 June 2021. The domestic 
EV market in Thailand is also on a continuous upward trend based on the increased number of EV 
registrations. 

Meanwhile, air pollution remains a serious problem with severe impacts, in particular from 
the PM2.5 particles from automobile combustion, open burning of agricultural materials, and 
industrial emissions. With measurements regularly exceeding acceptable levels every year, PM2.5 
particulates have increasingly wide repercussions on the population, especially in industrial areas 
and large cities with dense populations and traffic congestions such as Saraburi, Bangkok and 
Chiang Mai. Besides, Thailand is continuing its efforts to reduce its GHG emissions in compliance 
with the Paris agreement. As a result, the Thai government has expedited the development of a 
comprehensive EV system and set a vision for Thailand to become one of the world’s important 
production bases of EVs and their parts with an emphasis on the development of zero emission 
vehicles (ZEV), which include battery-powered electric vehicles (BEV) and fuel-cell electric 
vehicles (FCEV), setting targets by 2030 at 440,000 units in domestic use (50 per cent of all 
vehicles) and 725,000 units in production (30 per cent of all vehicles). 

Based on the context and Thailand’s automotive industry development policies, goals have 
been formulated for the next phase of Thailand’s EV industry development acceleration in three 
areas with an aim to achieve the targets set by the National Electric Vehicle Policy Committee and 
to effectively mitigate environmental impacts. These include: 1) To increase domestic 
consumption and export demand for all types of EVs by establishing consumption demand for 
the domestic market and export demand for EVs, especially hybrids and plug-in hybrids which 
play a significant role in familiarizing consumers over the transitional period; 2) To encourage 
existing operators to shift to EV production, and to support key technology investment in 


domestic EV production in order to enable the industry to meet global trends and emerging needs, 
to facilitate manufacturers of vehicle parts in shifting to EV industry or other appropriate 
businesses, and to mitigate the impacts affecting internal combustion vehicle manufacturers and 
other affected businesses; and 3) To build an ecosystem of supporting factors focusing on 
human resources development, investment in large-scale battery factories and development of 
relevant standards. An urgent implementation of these measures will benefit the country’s exports. 

Transitioning towards EVs will impact the current production and workforce while shifting 
the supply chain towards sustainability. This is due to differences in engine aspects: while electric 
engines mainly rely on battery power, conventional engines are built from a wide range of parts 
which involve more businesses and a larger workforce. With this in mind, Milestone 3 is set to 
cover a five-year transitional period with a focus on fully supporting the EV industry to 
become a new leading industry and helping the country to emerge as a production base of 
EVs by manufacturing main parts simultaneously with shifting the production base of internal 
combustion vehicles towards EVs without abandoning high-potential export markets so as to 
maintain balance and the production capacity at more than 2 million units per year during the 
transition period, as well as supporting different tiers of manufacturers of conventional automotive 
parts to transition and become manufacturers in the EV industry. 

2. Development Goals 

2.1 Connections between Milestone 3 and the main targets and goals of the 13th National 
Economic and Social Development Plan and the National Strategy 

Milestone 3, whereby Thailand is the world’s important electric vehicle manufacturing 
base, is connected with three targets of the 13th Plan, namely, 1) Target 1: Restructuring the 
manufacturing and service sectors towards an innovation-based economy by enhancing 
competitiveness of local economies and small entrepreneurs to enable them to connect to the value 
chain with an enabling ecosystem to support trade, investment and innovation; 2) Target 2: 
Developing human capital for the future by equipping Thai people with necessary skills and 
qualifications according to social norms to meet the needs of targeted manufacturing sectors while 
promoting human security through social protection; and 3) Target 4: Transitioning production 
and consumption towards sustainability through effective use of natural resources in 
manufacturing and consumption while addressing pollution in sustainable ways and reducing GHG 
emissions. 

These three targets are also consistent with the National Strategy in the area of 
competitiveness enhancement by increasing the country’s competitiveness of next-generation 
industries and services with a focus on transitioning the entire automotive industry into a smart 
automotive industry, supporting technology and the development of energy storage system, 
promoting investment in research and development and technology transfers, as well as 
encouraging the local automotive industry to achieve international standards. 

Meanwhile, Milestone 3 is also consistent with the National Strategy on developing and 
strengthening human capital that, for the working-age population, emphasizes lifelong capacity 
building with continuous enhancement of capacity, skills, and competency of the workforce in line 
with the labor market’s needs; and on Eco-Friendly Development and Growth that focuses on 
quality of life based on the Sustainable Consumption and Production (SCP) principle and 
sustainable growth in a climate-friendly, low-carbon society with reductions in GHG emissions. 


2.2 Goals, Indicators and Targets 

Target 1 To create domestic consumption and export demands for various types of EVs. 

Indicator 1.1 There are 282,240 EVs (zero-emission vehicles (ZEVs) with new registrations, 
which include battery-powered electric vehicles [BEVs] and fuel-cell electric 
vehicles [FCEVs]), accounting for 26 per cent of all vehicles, in use in Thailand 
by 2027. 

Indicator 1.2 Thailand manufactures 380,250 ZEVs, accounting for 17 per cent of all vehicles, 
by 2027. 

Indicator 1.3 No fewer than 40,000 vehicles are converted into modified EVs by 2027. 

Indicator 1.4 The export value of EVs or parts increases by 5 per cent per year, or Thailand’s 
export value of EV parts increases by 5 per cent per year. 

Target 2 To ensure that existing businesses can transition into EV production and there 
are investments in key EV technology in the country. 

Indicator 2.1 Thailand’s automotive industry ranks as ASEAN’s number one production base 
and is among the world’s top 10. 

Indicator 2.2 The combined value of investment promotion for the EV and parts industry is no 
less than 130 billion baht by 2027. 

Indicator 2.3 The number of businesses in the EV supply chain increases by no less than 14, 
and there are investments in key EV technology in Thailand by 2027. 

Indicator 2.4 The proportion of entrepreneurs who can transform their businesses increases by 
10 per cent by 2027. 

Indicator 2.5 The number of automotive workers upskilled to EVs and employed in the new 
industry increases by 5,000 by 2027. 

Target 3 To systematically build enabling factors. 

Indicator 3.1 The value of investment in automotive-related science, technology, research and 
innovation increases by 20 per cent per year. 

Indicator 3.2 The number of workers undertaken EVs training development is not less than 
30,000 by 2027. 

Indicator 3.3 The number of public charging stations/fast chargers increases by 5,000 by 2027. 

Indicator 3.4 The number of quality and safety standards for main EV parts increases by no less 
than 15 per year. 

Indicator 3.5 Air pollution (PM2.5) and GHG emissions from the transport industry decreases 
by 4 per cent per year. 


3. Strategy Map 

 

 

 

 

 

 


4. Development Strategies 

Strategy 1 Encouraging users in all sectors to shift to EVs: 

Sub-strategy 1.1 Promoting incentives to encourage a shift to EVs, including 1) tax 
incentives such as an excise tax, waiver or reduction of annual vehicle registration fees, etc., 2) 
non-tax incentives such as discounts on household and condominium electricity bills, free parking, 
and hire-purchase loans for EV users, and 3) subsidies for EV purchases to lower operational costs 
to similar level as those of internal combustion vehicles. 

Sub-strategy 1.2 Promoting the use of all types of EVs in public transport systems, 
government agencies, state enterprises and public organizations through a conditional 
procurement mechanism to promote domestic production and human resources development in the 
EV industry. 

Sub-strategy 1.3 Encouraging people to convert existing internal combustion 
vehicles into modified EVs with safety standards certification and registration. 

Sub-strategy 1.4 Formulating a public relations plan on ZEVs as well as 
supporting the development of a relevant piloted program to raise public awareness and 
understanding. 

Strategy 2 Fostering EV export market expansion: 

Sub-strategy 2.1 Fostering EV export market expansion while retaining existing 
export bases in Thailand’s main trade partners for competitive products, particularly pickup 
trucks. 

Sub-strategy 2.2 Promoting BEV exports, especially to countries with carbon-
neutral policies to encourage the use of such vehicles. 

Strategy 3 Formulating goals and plans for a systematic, concrete transition of the existing 
automotive industry throughout the supply chain to the EV industry within five 
years: 

Sub-strategy 3.1 Promoting Thailand as a key EV production base to attract 
foreign investment in ZEV manufacturing, as well as supporting businesses within the supply 
chain to become capable of manufacturing key parts in EV technology, including connected and 
autonomous vehicles. 

Sub-strategy 3.2 Encouraging the production of “clean, economical and safe” 
vehicles according to international standards (UN regulations) to improve the quality of vehicles 
for domestic use and meet the diverse needs of current and new export markets. 

Sub-strategy 3.3 Enabling the establishment of a domestic production base for 
batteries and key parts such as motors, battery management systems and navigation systems. 

Sub-strategy 3.4 Fostering supply chain connections with countries with important 
raw materials for ZEV production, including rare earth minerals and semiconductors. 

Sub-strategy 3.5 Expediting a shift towards electrification of national product 
champions such as pickup trucks, eco-cars and motorcycles. 


Sub-strategy 3.6 Maintaining the competitiveness of market-capable products that 
are still unable to transition within a short period (five years), such as pick-up trucks, taking into 
consideration consumer preparedness and product readiness. 

Sub-strategy 3.7 Encouraging existing operators with potentials to shift to EV 
production lines such as production with new materials of auto bodies and suspension systems, 
the production of power transmission systems, etc. 

Sub-strategy 3.8 Exploring and determining directions for domestic disposal of 
used vehicles and parts in line with the global automobile trends, as well as promoting reuse in 
accordance with circular economy principles. 

Strategy 4 Enhancing Thai entrepreneurs’ capability to invest in the production of EV, 
batteries and key parts: 

Sub-strategy 4.1 Promoting progressive development to facilitate businesses’ 
transition and minimize economic impacts during the transitional period by supporting automotive 
technologies with potentials such as hybrids, plug-in hybrids, etc. in order to build momentum to 
become manufacturers in the BEV supply chain. Encouraging domestic manufacturers to use ICT 
to increase production management efficiency. 

Sub-strategy 4.2 Providing benefits to boost investment by means of financial and 
tax measures. Forging partnerships with leading EV countries to seek appropriate measures to 
assist in the transition of Thai enterprises and boost competitiveness of Thai start-ups on the 
international market. 

Sub-strategy 4.3 Advocating for the adoption of technologies such as autonomous 
systems, artificial intelligence, other 4.0 industries, as well as 5G wireless mobile technology in 
production management to cut costs and raise competitiveness. 

Sub-strategy 4.4 Promoting the conversion of existing internal combustions cars 
into EVs to stimulate investment in the automotive industry’s ecosystem and the transfer of EV 
technology. 

Sub-strategy 4.5 Promoting joint ventures/business partnerships between Thai 
businesses in the existing supply chain and foreign manufacturers of EVs or parts to promote 
technology and resource transfer as well as to enhance Thai enterprises’ development opportunities 
to become product and technology owners. 

Strategy 5 Initiating supportive measures for affected parties: 

Sub-strategy 5.1 Supporting enterprises in internal combustion engines and power 
transmission systems in their transition to other industries such as industrial robotics, rail or other 
industries with potentials. 

Sub-strategy 5.2 Establishing remedy measures for those affected by the shift to an 
EV industry such as operators and workers in the petrochemical businesses and farmers of biofuel 
crops. 

Strategy 6 Advancing research and development of technology and innovation related to 
EVs and autonomous cars: 

Sub-strategy 6.1 Establishing research and innovation joint ventures. Accelerating 
the research and development of batteries, sensor system, electronic system and communication 


system for EVs. Developing CO2 capture technology, taking into consideration a product’s entire 
lifecycle, and promoting technologies related to EV conversion as well as knowledge and 
technology transfer to local EV businesses. 

Sub-strategy 6.2 Encouraging manufacturers of EVs and parts to use the 
government-built intellectual infrastructure for research and development, such as the National 
Automatic and Tire Testing, the Research and Innovation Center, and a battery-testing laboratory 
in Sanam Chai Khet District, Chachoengsao Province. 

Sub-strategy 6.3 Promoting researches and formulating regulations to support 
research and development in ZEVs and autonomous vehicles as well as electrical connectors, 
electrification and shared use in order to extend results in the domestic industrial sector afterward. 

Strategy 7 Readying energy infrastructure with appropriate and sufficient capacity to 
support future EV usage: 

Sub-strategy 7.1 Supporting the investment and development of EV charging 
stations or chargers to fit consumer behaviors and daily routines at home, office, places of 
accommodation and public spaces. 

Sub-strategy 7.2 Supporting the reinforcement of electrical grids to sufficiently 
meet the constant charging demand of increasing EV use, together with separating electricity bills 
for EV charging from other electricity usage. 

Sub-strategy 7.3 Promoting the smart grid technology to fully integrate the 
connections and management of EV charging, including the development of smart meters as well 
as an integrated platform to link data from charging stations and EVs for the purpose of grid 
management. 

Strategy 8 Reviewing and revising relevant regulations to facilitate the growth of the EV 
industry, with a focus on synergy between the public and private sectors: 

Sub-strategy 8.1 Drafting and amending laws and regulations to facilitate the 
growth of the EV industry and charging stations together with regulations on communications and 
safety, installation and area development, and used batteries. 

Sub-strategy 8.2 Relaxing regulations related to investment in supply chains of 
EVs parts that will be vital at the initial stage to boost foreign direct investments. 

Sub-strategy 8.3 Reviewing and revising relevant regulations (particularly in 
relation to vehicle registration) to encourage and facilitate conversion to EVs. 

Strategy 9 Producing and developing workers with skills that meet the EV industry’s 
demand: 

Sub-strategy 9.1 Developing human resources to support the EV industry and 
providing remedies during transition, as well as promoting lifelong learning. 

Sub-strategy 9.2 Promoting collaboration between businesses and educational 
institutions to boost knowledge transfer of the EV technology, particularly in relation to battery 
technology, sensor system and EV electronics system. 


Sub-strategy 9.3 Setting measures to attract highly skilled Thai and foreign experts 
with benefits offered at the preliminary periods, such as tax benefits for high-skilled workforce in 
fields related to EV production, privileges in visa, residency and migration for foreign experts. 

Strategy 10 Putting an emphasis on quality and safety standards: 

Sub-strategy 10.1 Establishing and developing standards for EVs, parts and 
accessories in line with export markets’ standards and requirements. Enhancing laboratory testing 
and accreditation standards in compliance with international standards. 

Sub-strategy 10.2 Identifying key standards to promote conversion to EVs and the 
manufacturing of battery, charging stations and other EV accessories. 

Sub-strategy 10.3 Formulating standard development plans for EV businesses. 

Sub-strategy 10.4 Developing and enhancing the capacity of the National 
Automotive and Tire Test Center in testing EVs and parts in full compliance with international 
standards and requirements. 

Sub-strategy 10.5 Identifying standards and designated agency responsible for 
certifying converted vehicles. 

Sub-strategy 10.6 Encouraging investment in domestic test centers to achieve 
industrial standards and standards for EV manufacturers, product liabilities, and quality 
management through collaboration with international accreditation organizations. 

Sub-strategy 10.7 Developing key standards — namely, installation standards and 
battery standards for converted vehicles — to build confidence in the safety of converted vehicles. 
Reviewing and revising relevant regulations, particularly in relation to vehicle registration to 
facilitate conversion into EVs. 

Strategy 11 Providing financial supports to businesses investing in the clean-energy 
automotive industry: 

Sub-strategy 11.1 Providing low-interest rate loans to EV-and-parts businesses. 

Sub-strategy 11.2 Encouraging the establishment of a fund for investment in EV 
infrastructure and management related to the green and circular economies. 

 

 


Milestone 4: Thailand is a High-Value Medical and Wellness Hub 

1. 
Past Development Situation 

Thailand provides medical services to an increasing number of foreigners; however, the 
impacts on Thai people’s access to healthcare must be taken into account. In 2019, 3.6 million 
foreigners visited Thailand for medical services, generating 41 billion baht in revenue. This is due 
to comparatively low costs and the good reputation of Thailand’s medical personnel when 
compared with services at a similar level in other countries. On the other hand, the distribution of 
medical workers remains inequitable among different regions of the country: the ratio of 
physicians per 1,000 population is only 0.5 compared to 2.4 in South Korea and 1.9 in Singapore. 
Besides, Thailand’s aim to become a healthcare hub and generate revenue by offering medical and 
healthcare services to foreigners may cause a brain drain of healthcare workers from the public to 
the private sector, thus impacting public access to healthcare, especially among those with low 
incomes or living in remote areas. Despite the fact that advanced technologies and innovations are 
applied to facilitate and lessen the burden of healthcare workers, potential negative impacts of 
technology must also be considered. 

Thailand’s medical and wellness tourism ranks 4th in the Asia-Pacific Region in terms of 
market share. However, confidence in the quality standards of facilities remains an issue. In 
2019, Thailand saw 12.6 million persons/times of service uptakes in medical tourism services, 
contributing 409,200 million baht in revenues to the country. There were 530,000 employments 
and 4,352 registered wellness facilities, especially spas and Thai massage parlors, which are 
popular in foreign countries. Nevertheless, quality standards as well as image and pricing are in 
need of improvement in order to build customer confidence. 

Thailand exports low-value medical tools and equipment while importing high-value 
medical products. It is found that 88 per cent of exported products are medical consumables, 
while 42 per cent of imports are medical hardware, including ultrasound, x-ray, and MRI 
machines, and 40 per cent are medical consumables such as ophthalmological products. Support 
for the private sector and SMEs in product research and development and the promotion of 
domestic utilization remains limited, resulting in the import of medical tools and equipment due 
to lower costs. 

Most of the domestic production of drugs and vaccines are downstream production using 
imported raw materials in manufacturing finished drugs and vaccines. In 2019, the value of 
Thailand’s drug market was 184 billion baht. Domestic consumption accounted for 90 per cent of 
production, most of which, however, were finished drugs made from imported raw materials. 
Although the exports of drugs grew at 8 per cent per year from 2014 to 2018, they accounted only 
for 0.2 per cent of total exports because most exported drugs are cheap generics. There is currently 
downstream production of several types of vaccines, performed by mixing or aliquoting imported 
components. Due to a lack of advanced research and technology, the only vaccines locally 
produced from upstream are BCG and acellular pertussis vaccines. Meanwhile, the COVID-19 
pandemic has spurred research and development in high-value vaccines. It is anticipated that the 
worth of the global vaccine market will reach US$83.5 billion by 2027. 

Thailand has a potential regarding medicinal plants. However, herb exports are mostly 
low-value raw materials whereas imports are expensive herbal extracts. Limitations remain in 
terms of sub-standard quality and lack of scientific research to verify their benefits, as observed 
from the low number of currently registered Thai herbal products. In addition, the customs tariff 


for alcohol used in the herbal active ingredient extraction process is still inappropriate, resulting 
in a considerably higher tariff for alcohol, which therefore affects herbal product production costs. 
However, the COVID-19 pandemic helps accelerate research in this regard and several Thai herbs 
such as Andrographis paniculata (“Fah Thalai Chone”) and Boesenbergia rotunda (L.) Mansf. 
(“Krachai Khao”) are found to help prevent/treat COVID-19, presenting great opportunities for 
the further development of Thai herbal products. 

Thailand's medical academic and research potentials are insufficient for self-reliance. 
Although four Thai universities were among the 2021 QS World University Ranking in Life 
Sciences and Medicine, and one of them ranked among the world’s top 150 (Thailand and 
Singapore were the only ASEAN countries included in the world’s top 150 group), according to 
the H-Index, Thailand ranks 42nd in terms of quantitative and qualitative research, lower than 
Malaysia. In addition to a gap in research development, the application and commercialization of 
research remains an issue due to a lack of supporting ecosystem and infrastructure such as test 
centers and laboratories of international standards and personnel with specific expertise. As a 
result, Thailand’s medical industry still necessarily relies on imports. 

The aim to become a medical and wellness hub as well as globalization threatens 
Thailand’s ability to address emerging and re-emerging diseases. Over the past 20 years, 
Thailand has experienced several waves of imported emerging diseases such as SARS, Avian 
influenza, Zika, 2009 influenza and MERS. An ongoing widespread outbreak of COVID-19, the 
latest emerging disease, has critically impacted the country’s tourism and export sectors. The Thai 
economy severely contracted in 2020, and the number of foreign tourists in the first quarter 
dropped by 38.01 per cent from the same period of the previous year. Moreover, the pandemic has 
also affected people’s livelihoods and put the healthcare system in crisis. Therefore, Thailand 
needs to restructure its healthcare system, equipment, and workforce to ensure effective control 
and handling of pandemics and avoid threats to the country’s healthcare system and economy. 

2. 
Development Goals 

2.1 
Connections between Milestone 4 and the main targets and goals of the 13th National 
Economic and Social Development Plan and the National Strategy 

Milestone 4, whereby Thailand is a high-value medical and wellness hub, is aligned with 
four main targets of the 13th Plan, namely 1) Target 1: Restructuring the manufacturing and 
service sectors towards an innovation-based economy by adopting innovation in medical and 
wellness product production and services to crate economic value add; 2) Target 2: Developing 
human capital for the new global era with high medical and healthcare capabilities to mitigate 
obstacles to enhancing the capacity of medical services; 3) Target 3: Creating a society of 
opportunities and fairness to mitigate impacts on public access to healthcare; and 4) Target 5: 
Enhancing Thailand’s ability to cope with changes and risks under the new global context 
by setting a direction for the development of emergency health and healthcare services 
management system. 

Milestone No. 4 is also consistent with the National Strategy in the area of 
Competitiveness Enhancement under the goal “Thailand’s national competitiveness is 
increased” through the designation of the comprehensive healthcare industry as a service industry 
of the future; leveraging Thailand's medical expertise to build associated industries related to the 
development of medical industry and services; using new technologies to raise the quality of 
medical services to international standards; and linking the industry with medical tourism. It is 


also in line with the National Strategy on Social Cohesion and Equity under the goal of “Creating 
fairness and reduce inequalities in all dimensions,” particularly in the form of fair and equitable 
access to healthcare. 

2.2 
Goals, Indicators and Targets 

Target 1 
Thailand has the potential to create economic values from healthcare products and 
services. 

Indicator 1.1 
The proportion of value added in healthcare products and services to 
GDP is 1.7 per cent. 

Target 2 
Thailand's medical and healthcare knowledge has good potential and is conducive 
to creating value added to healthcare goods and services. 

Indicator 2.1 
Import values of medical hardware decreases by no less than 20 per cent 
(20 billion baht) at the end of the plan. 

Target 3 
Thai people enjoy equitable access to healthcare services. 

Indicator 3.1 
The proportion of household healthcare expenses to all healthcare 
expenses is no higher than 12 per cent. 

Target 4 
The public health emergency management system is fully equipped with 
preparedness for public health threats. 

Indicator 4.1 
The result of core competency evaluation in international health 
regulation compliance is no lower than 4 for all indicators. 

 


3. 
Strategy Map 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 


4. 
Development Strategies 

 Strategy 1 
Promoting medical services with the capability to create economic values: 

Sub-strategy 1.1 
Encouraging the private sector to enhance medical services 
based on innovations and advanced technologies through government standards, supports, and 
regulatory measures. 

1) 
Enhancing medical services with a focus on precision medicine, predictive 
medicine and personalized healthcare. Developing target group databases to enable individualized 
treatment and care as well as gene and stem cell therapies. Utilizing healthcare services to support 
evidence-based medical services, including anti-ageing medicine. Encouraging connections with 
business partners organizing medical services in Thailand for foreign patients, especially those 
from countries where the health security system covers medical expenses incurred in Thailand. 

2) 
Developing a quality control system to regulate quality standards in advanced 
medical services, taking into consideration all aspects of impacts. For example, providing quality 
services at reasonable prices, regulating issues of ethical concerns in advanced medical technology 
and innovations such as surrogacy and stem cells, etc. 

Sub-strategy 1.2 
Reviewing/revising relevant laws and regulations to facilitate the 
medical and wellness hub initiative. 

1) 
Exploring the feasibility of a specific law supporting the medical and wellness hub 
initiative that addresses operational constraints, such as a law related to digital medicine, use of 
foreign healthcare coverage and social welfare system, and immigration. Designating responsible 
agencies for implementation. 

2) 
Revising relevant laws to combine licenses for wellness and medical services into 
a single license that covers all activities related to wellness facilities, hospitals and hotels, together 
with revising relevant laws to facilitate professionals in wellness-related fields that are not yet 
being taught in Thailand, such as nature therapy, to provide medical supports under their 
professional licenses. 

Strategy 2 
Pressing for Thailand to become a world-class hub for wellness services: 

Sub-strategy 2.1 
Developing innovations in wellness services based on Thailand's 
unique identity. 

1) 
Incorporating Thailand’s distinguished identity into wellness services by 
encouraging all local sectors to collaboratively create a comprehensive wellness city, leveraging 
local knowledge in traditional Thai medicine, alternative medicine and health tourism in local 
communities to develop Thai brands of wellness services and products with international 
competitiveness. 

2) 
Pressing for the development of world-class managers in wellness services to 
build the reputation of advanced wellness services for foreigners as well as making a joint 
investment to expand services abroad, which might result in an increase in uptakes at low- and 
mid-level. 

Sub-strategy 2.2 
Raising the quality standards of wellness facilities to boost 
competitiveness. Developing professional standards of wellness-related businesses through quality 
management processes. Offering incentives for SMEs to register under the Health Business 


Establishments Act B.E. 2559 (2016) and enhance service standards in order to compete on the 
international market. 

Sub-strategy 2.3 
Developing new wellness services to ensure well-being in an 
ageing society. Accommodating spaces for digital communities for well-being based on service 
and product innovations appropriate for new normal lifestyles, such as telemedicine and 
appropriate changes in behaviors and lifestyles through food therapy and mental therapy in the 
form of meditation. Studying consumer behaviors in each age and ethnicity group to identify 
incentives for service uptakes. Developing infrastructure with universal architecture to support 
long-term healthcare services. Establishing residential areas for the elderly as well as areas for 
sports and exercises to encourage longer stays among the active elderly and work-and-travel 
visitors. 

Strategy 3 
Creating value add to the medical and wellness industry: 

Sub-strategy 3.1 
Bolstering the development of digital infrastructure to 
accommodate upgradation of the medical and wellness industry. 

1) 
Developing a system for the evaluation of medical technology and medical 
product testing standards so as to meet international standards, such as scholarly articles on safety 
standards for product registrations in Asian, US, and European markets, to ensure convenience 
and universal standard in product testing, as well as to create opportunities for Thailand to 
undertake research, analysis and accreditation of foreign products. 

2) 
Upgrading the production capacity of testing centers. Collaborating with the 
private sector to develop and upgrade comprehensive testing centers to achieve international 
standards for medical products, including prototyping centers, laboratory animal centers, and 
centers for clinical trials in humans. Increasing the number of level-3 biosafety laboratories with a 
capacity to test products against hazardous organism in order to support domestic research and 
development and upstream manufacturing. 

3) 
Developing production bases and supporting the setting up of pilot plants for 
biopharmaceuticals, drugs, herbal products and vaccines with international standards, 
particularly vaccines against emerging and re-emerging diseases, so as to meet domestic needs, 
minimize imports, and ensure the long-term security of the public health system. 

Sub-strategy 3.2 
Reforming the regulatory system for health products. 
Restructuring responsible agencies to increase independence and agility in terms of budget 
acquisition, personnel and network development to elevate capability and regulate health products 
at the same standards as those in developed countries, together with streamlining the registration 
process to allow businesses to market products promptly without losing opportunities and 
competitiveness. 

Sub-strategy 3.3 
Promoting investment and marketing of health and medical 
products. Revising relevant laws, regulations and measures on joint investment between the 
government and SMEs to facilitate domestic production. Utilizing tax mechanisms to promote 
investment. Supporting the manufacturing of products with international standards and market 
demands with a focus on traceability of raw materials. Building confidence through scientific 
evidences in products throughout the supply chain. Establishing a digital platform to connect 
demand and supply while marketing products domestically and internationally. 

Sub-strategy 3.4 
Encouraging the purchase and use of domestic products. 


1) 
Improving the List of Thai Innovations for ease of use and facilitate the 
development of the healthcare industry with strict and serious enforcement in the public sector. 
Revising commodity codes for hardware and materials in alignment with the List of Thai 
Innovations. Formulating and including a list of Thai-manufactured medical equipment with 
international standards in the public procurement system. 

2) 
Forging attitudes and encouraging private healthcare facilities and medical 
schools to use domestically produced medical equipment which are of high quality, safe, efficient, 
and cost-effective by offering tax benefits for the procurement of Thailand-produced medical 
equipment. Enforcing the inclusion of a list of Thailand-produced medical equipment with 
international standards in medical school curricula and service systems. 

Strategy 4 
Enhancing academic capability in medical education, research, and technology: 

Sub-strategy 4.1 
Promoting the “medical education hub” initiative by developing 
international medical courses as well as trainings for medical personnel in South Asia and ASEAN 
with internship opportunities, both online and in Thai hospitals, through scholarships from 
international organizations, third countries or the Thai government. Equipping teaching faculties 
with skills in foreign languages, communications, teaching and evaluation that correspond to the 
teaching and training of foreign medical personnel. 

Sub-strategy 4.2 
Exploiting benefits and opportunities from international medical 
conferences. Developing incentives and benefits for leading international organizations and 
foreign experts to take part in the improvement of Thailand’s medical research and innovation 
standards through, for example, research agreements, further expansion of presented works in 
Thailand, internship/exchange programs at leading institutions, inviting international experts to 
teach/speak in Thailand, and international presentation of works by Thai researchers. 

Sub-strategy 4.3 
Developing research personnel with interdisciplinary knowledge 
and skills in conducting research in science, technology, innovation and digital medicine, and 
technological innovation and evaluation. Facilitating knowledge exchanges and skills building 
among researchers within the professional community. Continuously incubating medical 
innovators. Encouraging educational institutions to engage in research. Attracting more 
international experts to work in Thailand and transfer knowledge as well as developing 
mechanisms to retain healthcare personnel, especially by means of appropriate remuneration for 
research personnel to motivate them to maintain their research profession. 

Sub-strategy 4.4 
Building a research ecosystem to facilitate the commercialization 
of technological innovations. Advocating for collaboration among developers, manufacturers, 
healthcare facilities and technological assessors to create research spaces to test products before 
adoption or commercialization so as to build confidence in innovations. Providing initial funding 
and developing a mechanism that enables the concrete use of research; for example, SMEs’ 
accessibility to research data, business matching between investors and researchers, post-research 
intellectual property protection and patent management. Assigning a quality control regulatory 
body to assist in expediting the product approval process to shorten time-to-market of healthcare 
products. 

Sub-strategy 4.5 
Establishing international networks for collaboration in research 
and development. Supporting a collaboration between research Institutions, private sector, 
domestic education institutions with international research Institutions/companies with capabilities 


and international recognition in scientific research to promote medical technology transfer 
through, for example, joint research, commissioned research, etc. Elevating academic support to 
countries with tendencies to join the value chain network of research and development through 
scholarships and international training in line with Thailand’s development directions for the 
medical and wellness industry. 

Strategy 5 
Ensuring healthcare system management based on the economy-health balance 
of Thai people: 

Sub-strategy 5.1 
Managing medical personnel in line with the healthcare system. 

1) 
Promoting private sector engagement in producing and developing medical 
personnel with a role in identifying fields with needs, curriculum development, the production as 
well as upskilling of specialized and interdisciplinary personnel to accommodate high-value 
medical services, and necessary competency enhancement training. 

2) 
Encouraging importation of medical personnel. Developing examinations for 
professional licenses to facilitate the recruitment of foreign personnel. Promoting shared use of 
personnel between the public and private sectors, especially personnel in fields with advanced 
expertise, to reduce shortages and ensure effective use of resources. 

3) 
Enabling the distribution of healthcare workforce by developing a mechanism to 
rotate healthcare workforce in terms of geography, workload and areas of shortage. Offering 
incentives to healthcare workers to remain in the public health system, such as career paths, job 
promotions and capacity development opportunities for personnel in remote areas, reductions of 
workload, and improvement of basic welfare system to ensure good quality of life. 

Sub-strategy 5.2 
Establishing a mechanism to regulate and manage medical fees. 
Developing mechanisms and guidelines to regulate medical fees, which might be affected by the 
medical hub policy, to ensure appropriate costs. Improving the health security payment system to 
become more comprehensive so as to allow people to access necessary medical services in an 
inclusive and fair manner. 

Sub-strategy 5.3 
Developing a digital and ICT system to support medical services. 

1) 
Encouraging the use of digital technology to increase efficiency, reduce 
workloads, and address personnel shortages, such as artificial intelligence for basic screening and 
telemedicine. Expanding the coverage of digital infrastructure. Revising relevant rules and 
regulations together with formulating mechanisms and guidelines to evaluate the use of medical 
technology and to avoid possible negative impacts. 

2) 
Initiating a national health database by forging collaboration among relevant 
agencies through mutual agreement to link together basic data from public agencies on a common 
interoperable digital platform while taking into account personal data protection, such as data on 
morbidity and mortality, incapacitation, health security, research and innovation, number of 
healthcare workers and experts produced and currently in service for analyzing and expanding on 
the acquired data for service management and the planning of future workforce. Allowing open 
access to data to benefit the development of medical products and services so as to meet market 
demands and the needs of all population groups. 

 


Strategy 6 
Strengthening the capacity of public health emergency response system to 
mitigate impacts on economic and public health services: 

Sub-strategy 6.1 
Reforming the system of epidemics and health threats 
surveillance and management. 

1) 
Restructuring and unifying the epidemics surveillance and management system. 
Designating a central agency to set national public health directions for an integration of 
surveillance, prevention, preparedness, emergency response, and rapid recovery operations. 
Establishing an emergency response center and command control system as a key public health 
management mechanism to ensure effective coordination and resource allocation. 

2) 
Developing integrated health and environmental surveillance mechanisms and 
data systems. Setting up mechanisms that integrate public health and environmental management 
from policy to implementation levels. Building a system to link together data on public health 
under the One Health concept, including data on population health, zoonotic diseases, environment 
and key public health resources, based on the application of digital technology in data processing, 
to ensure effective and timely responses to public health threats. 

Sub-strategy 6.2 
Establishing an emergency preparedness system to ensure public 
health security. Formulating an appropriate workforce plan for the surveillance, prevention and 
control of diseases and public health threats including expert clinical and field epidemiologists, 
data scientists, researchers, mathematical modelers, lab technicians and disease investigators, with 
an appropriate ratio to the country’s population, while providing adequate remuneration, welfare 
benefits and career advancement to the workforce. Encouraging people’s collaboration in 
surveillance and prevention, as well as setting up a preparedness plan for essential drugs, medical 
supplies, vaccines, medical equipment and materials for effective emergency responses. 

 

 


Milestone 5: 
Thailand is the Region’s Key Strategic Trade, Investment and Logistics 
Gateway 

1. 
Past Development Situation 

An increasingly extensive trade rivalry between the United States and China has 
inevitably affected Thailand and Southeast Asia. Strategically located in a demarcation zone, the 
country and its region need to maintain good relationships with both superpowers, especially in 
relation to changing trends in investment and trade in global supply chains as well as political and 
economic alignments. In this regard, Thailand’s future direction should be focused on playing a 
leading role in forging business partnerships with other ASEAN countries, particularly the Greater 
Mekong Subregion (GMS) countries with an emphasis on collaboration rather than competition, 
while making Thailand a strategic gateway and nexus to promote constructive balance in 
international relations and the economy between the region and the two superpowers so that the 
region’s progress and security are well maintained. In particular, Thailand needs to carefully 
balance its relations with China, the United States and other Western nations by clearly indicating 
the country’s long-term needs in economic, social and environmental dimensions, as well as in 
terms of quality of life and advanced technologies, to elucidate to friendly countries Thailand’s 
willingness to collaborate on these issues. Besides, due to geographical proximity to China, 
Thailand needs a clear economic development strategy to connect the country, Laos and China 
together and benefit from transport routes from Nongkhai and Chiangrai provinces into Laos and 
China, which would stimulate investment in building an agile trilateral economic network and 
trade system, specifically in Thailand’s Northeastern and Northern regions, Laos, and China's 
southern provinces. 

In addition, the COVID-19 pandemic has sparked a tendency of production base relocation. 
To prevent risks, many countries seek a guarantee against supply chain disruptions by moving 
production bases to friendly countries or to locations near export markets with efficient 
transportation, resulting in significant changes in the geography of supply chains around the world. 
Thailand, therefore, should promptly encourage local businesses in target industries to join the 
regional and global supply chains by receiving or making investments within international 
cooperation frameworks to pursue opportunities for economic growth, trade and investment 
expansion, and the enhancement of Thailand’s technological level. These cooperation frameworks 
include China, Taiwan, India, Japan, South Korea, and the GMS countries, for example. Thailand 
should also develop proactive strategies to exploit the relocation of production bases in target 
industries to expand trade and investment with China, the United States, Europe, and Japan based 
on mutual interests that also meet Thailand’s needs by attracting investment from every 
prospective country to relocate its production base to the Eastern Economic Corridor and other 
economic zones for linkage to key manufacturing locations in the GMS countries, southern China 
and Asia at large. 

Trade and investment with other Asian countries with large markets and highly advanced 
technologies should be initiated, giving prominence to India following its massive market growth 
potential and Taiwan following its globally recognized high-standard advanced technology. Due 
to new global standards in trade and investment requirements, it is likely that many countries, 
especially Western countries, will increasingly place an importance on social and environmental 
standards, such as well-being, quality of life, elimination of inequalities, transparency, good 
governance, intellectual property protection, human rights etc., and use them as conditions in 
drawing cooperation frameworks in international trade and investment. As a result, Thailand needs 


to formulate rules, regulations and practices to meet these international requirements, which will 
not only help the country develop immunity to trade sanctions and build confidence among 
investors but will also act as a key foundation for Thailand’s progress into a developed country in 
future. 

Due to the current situation, Thailand needs to invest more in offsetting the impacts of the 
COVID-19 pandemic, which has cost the country more than 3 trillion baht in a loss of revenues, 
delayed the country's transition into a high-income country, and increased the number of 
impoverished people by 10 million. In this regard, Thailand needs to increase investment by no 
less than 600 billion baht to escape from the middle-income trap, as well as urgently use the surplus 
from its economic expansion to reduce inequalities through investments in transport infrastructure 
to connect with neighboring countries, economic decentralization from Bangkok to regions 
throughout the country, and an increased private sector role in services to ensure maximum 
benefits and efficiency from investments in transport projects. 

In addition to the aforementioned investment in infrastructure, free trade agreements will 
also contribute to an increase in trade and investment. So far, Thailand has concluded 13 trade 
agreements with 18 countries, accounting for approximately 63 per cent of the country’s 
international trade. Nevertheless, the country should urgently negotiate more economic, trade and 
investment agreements with key partners — for example, the Comprehensive and Progressive 
Agreement for Trans-Pacific Partnership (CPTPP) as well as agreements with the European Union 
and the United Kingdom — for optimal benefits in line with the country’s needs while retaining 
the advantages of the local manufacturing and service sectors. A fund should be set up to prevent 
and mitigate impacts from trade agreements, while economic collaboration should be expanded 
with countries that can become sources of knowledge in science, technology and innovation in 
fields required for upgrading Thailand’s target industries. 

However, Thailand faces limitations in terms of trade and investment facilitation, such as 
regulations on cross-border transports and slow technology adoption in the transport sector, which 
are obstacles to logistics, trade and investment facilitation. Together with investing in 
infrastructure and concluding free trade agreements, Thailand therefore needs to review and revise 
obstructive regulations, including regulations on cross-border transport, logistics and trade, as well 
as encouraging local logistics service providers of all scales to embrace digital technologies to 
facilitate and promote domestic and international trade and investment. 

Following the country’s geographical advantage and infrastructure development, 
Thailand has the potential to become the transport nexus between the Indian Ocean and the Pacific 
Ocean, benefit from China’s One Belt One Road and the US-supported “Build Back Better World” 
initiatives, and connect with countries in the Greater Mekong Subregion (GMS) to facilitate trade 
connections with China. Hence, Thailand should integrate existing development plans for land, 
water and air transport infrastructure to leverage the country’s geographical advantages and 
infrastructure linkages between the GMS countries and southern China while including the Eastern 
Economic Corridor and other Special Economic Zones in infrastructure linkages to globalize the 
local manufacturing and service sectors. 

To promote transport and logistics in the GMS, a strategy should be formulated to drive 
international collaboration and agreements. In this context, a team should be set up to mobilize 
investment projects to expedite transportation linkages with GMS countries and China. There 
should also be an agency under the supervision of the Deputy Prime Minister responsible for high-


level strategic decision-making during negotiations; coordination among all relevant agencies to 
ensure integrated, collaborative operations; for example, by having the Ministry of Transport 
oversee the transports of goods and the Customs Department responsible for Thailand National 
Single Window system and a consideration of import tariff reductions for construction materials. 

2. 
Development Goals 

2.1 
Connections between Milestone 5 and the main targets and goals of the 13th National 
Economic and Social Development Plan and the National Strategy 

Milestone 5, whereby Thailand is the region’s key strategic trade, investment and logistics 
gateway, is connected with four targets in the 13th Plan, namely, 1) Target 1: Restructuring the 
manufacturing and service sectors towards an innovation-based economy; 2) Target 2: 
Developing human capital for the new global era; 3) Target 3: Creating a society of 
opportunities and fairness; and 4) Target 4: Ensuring the transition of production and 
consumption towards sustainability. These targets are achievable by creating an enabling 
ecosystem that supports trade and investment for Thailand to become the region’s key trade and 
investment base; enhancing the productivity and opportunities of Thai entrepreneurs to enable 
linkages to regional and global value chains; and enhancing the competitiveness of Thailand’s 
manufacturing and key service sectors. 

Milestone 5 is consistent with the National Strategy under the Constitution of the 
Kingdom of Thailand B.E. 2560 (2017) based on the strategies of 1) Security in developing 
collaborations with neighboring countries and at the regional and international levels as well as 
with governmental and non-government organizations; 2) Competitiveness enhancement in 
developing the next-generation manufacturing and service sectors and infrastructure to connect 
Thailand with the world, putting an emphasis on seamless transportation networks and logistics 
services, while maintaining and enhancing Thailand’s macro-economic stability, which focuses on 
connecting the country’s trade and investment infrastructure with other countries as well as 
expanding trade and investment co-operations; and 3) Eco-friendly development and growth to 
ensure sustainable growth in a climate-friendly, low-carbon society with reduction in GHG 
emissions. 

It is also linked with key areas in the master plan under the National Strategy, namely: 1) 
Foreign affairs in expanding bilateral and multilateral collaboration in economy, trade, transport 
and human resources, especially in the sub-region and in Asia; 2) Next-generation industry and 
service sectors focusing on developing and transitioning Thailand’s target industries into next-
generation industries as a pillar of the country’s economy, as well as building an enabling 
ecosystem for the development of industries and services; 3) Infrastructure, logistics and digital 
systems focusing on enhancing the capability, quality and efficiency of the transport infrastructure 
and logistics system to increase productivity in the manufacturing and service sectors, reduce 
production and service costs so as to raise competitiveness in the international market, and promote 
systematic connections within the region and sub-region; 4) Sustainable growth focusing on 
reducing GHG emissions, creating sustainable growth on the basis of natural resources and the 
environment, and making climate-friendly investments in the development of public and private 
infrastructure. 

2.2 
Goals, Indicators and Targets 

Target 1 
Thailand is the regional trade and investment gateway. 


Indicator 1.1 
Thailand’s economic competitiveness ranking (by the International 
Institute for Management Development) increases. 

Target 2 
Thailand is the regional supply chain. 

Indicator 2.1 
1) Thetotal value of domestic investment increases by no less than 6 per 
cent per year on average, or 2) The proportion of total investment to 
GDP is no less than 27 per cent per year on average. 

Indicator 2.2 
1) Thailands total export value expands by no less than 7 per cent per 
year on average, or 2) The proportion of Thailand’s export growth to 
the global export growth is no less than 1.5 per cent per year on 
average. 

Target 3 
Thailand is a regional transport and logistics gateway. 

Indicator 3.1 
Thailand’s ranking in the logistics performance index is no lower than 
25th or 3.60 in terms of scores. 

Indicator 3.2 
The proportion of Thailand’ logistics costs to GDP is less than 11 per 
cent. 

 

 


3. 
Strategy Map 

 

 

 

 

 


4. 
Development Strategies 

Strategy 1 
Building Thailand’s position in the new global context: 

Sub-strategy 1.1 
Maintaining balanced relationships with countries with which 
Thailand has friendly relations through policies that clearly meet the country’s needs. Extending 
collaboration with countries with which Thailand has friendly relations to ensure equitable 
cooperation. 

Sub-strategy 1.2 
Establishing Thailand’s role as the Greater Mekong Sub-region’s 
key economic partner by means of close collaboration and mutual support rather than competition. 
Forging balanced and collective regional development through a national committee to integrate 
approaches to fostering international relations at all levels. 

Sub-strategy 1.3 
Developing trade and investment relationships by pushing for the 
exploitation of existing free trade agreements as well as concluding other significant free trade 
agreements. Negotiating various agreements supporting trade and investment, such as transport, 
immigration, and management at border crossing areas. Building and strengthening collaboration 
in the special development zones between Thailand, Laos and China to generate economic and 
social benefits from logistic nexuses at Nongkhai and Chiangrai provinces. 

Sub-strategy 1.4 
Improving mechanisms to support the setting up of economic 
bases in the new global context. Establishing a mechanism or national committee for integrated 
approaches to reviewing and revising investment promotion as well as investing in new economic 
fields to accommodate an ongoing shift of production bases and supply chain realignment across 
Asia in the form of, for example, tariff and non-tariff privileges. 

Sub-strategy 1.5 
Formulating laws and guidelines to elevate the country to 
international standards. Promptly enhancing standards in social and environmental aspects as well 
as in health, well-being, quality of life, inequality mitigation, labor mobility, transparency and 
good governance in the business sector to meet international standards in order to overcome trade 
barriers and the middle-income trap. 

Strategy 2 
Developing infrastructure and supporting factors to enable Thailand to become 
a key regional trade and investment gateway as well as economic base: 

Sub-strategy 2.1 
Investing in infrastructure and developing supporting factors to 
promote special development zones and areas with current and future potentials, including 
transport infrastructure, logistics services and networks along key routes and links with 
neighboring countries, cross-border investment and trade facilities, ports and land bridges in the 
Southern Economic Corridor to turn Thailand into a strategic gateway. Investing in, and 
developing, infrastructure to enhance and accommodate tourism and services in provinces with 
potentials, such as connecting tourism in the Andaman Sea, which include Phuket, Krabi, Phang-
nga, Trang and Satun provinces, so as to become one of the world’s top five cruise destinations. 

Sub-strategy 2.2 
Developing a seamless multimodal transportation and logistics 
system at the regional, sub-regional and cross-border levels. Integrating infrastructure 
development plans for land, water and air transport to exploit the geographical and infrastructural 
linkages from regional, sub-regional and cross-border links, especially links with GMS countries 
and southern China. Including the Eastern Economic Corridor and other Special Economic Zones 
in the regional infrastructure linkages to globalize Thailand’s manufacturing and service sectors. 


Sub-strategy 2.3 
Continuously giving importance to the rail system and turning it 
into Thailand’s main transport network with linkages to regional and sub-regional logistics 
networks in order to minimize logistics costs. Supporting rail connections between Thailand, Laos 
and China at Nongkhai and Chiangrai provinces as well as facilitating rail connections between 
local economic zones in the Northern, Northeastern, Central and Eastern regions and China and 
GMS countries. 

Sub-strategy 2.4 
Building and enhancing the capacity of river and coastal 
transport, focusing on convenient, modern and safe transport along key rivers, including the Chao 
Phraya, Nan and Pasak rivers, and particularly along the Chao Phraya to Laem Chabang Port. 
Developing waterways for economic purposes to boost the effectiveness of domestic and 
international transport. 

Sub-strategy 2.5 
Boosting the efficiency of logistics management to facilitate and 
mitigate obstacles in trade and investment as well as correspond to future trade patterns. Improving 
basic infrastructure management systems by, for example, adopting modern technologies, 
enhancing service systems, developing software, and relaxing relevant rules and regulations. 

Sub-strategy 2.6 
Encouraging investment in building logistics service centers, 
which includes container yards or inland container depots, dry ports, and loading-unloading docks, 
with an emphasis on integrating investment plans into key strategic transport routes to enable 
connections with GMS countries, China and ASEAN. Setting compelling service rates to motivate 
a shift in transport modes to rail system. 

Sub-strategy 2.7 
Encouraging more private sector investment in infrastructure 
with transparency, accountability and clear evaluation of efficiency and success. Allowing 
operators in the trade, investment and service sectors to have more roles in service provision. 

Strategy 3 
Stimulating investments to restructure target industries towards Thailand 4.0: 

Sub-strategy 3.1 
Expediting the adoption of modern technologies in production in 
the industrial, service, and logistics sectors, particularly in terms of a shift to automate production 
and prompt exploitation of technological advancement. 

Sub-strategy 3.2 
Restructuring the industrial, service and logistics sectors to adopt 
BCG (Bio-Circular-Green Economy Model) framework, as well as supporting clean energy usage, 
reusing and recycling of factors of production, and CO2 emission reductions. 

Sub-strategy 3.3 
Establishing digital systems conducive to trade and investment. 
Developing a national trade platform to support B2B trade. Digitalizing Thailand’s financial 
services to facilitate investments. Reviewing, revising and developing laws and regulations related 
to fair trade and trade and investment facilitation. Developing effective laws on electronic 
transactions and personal data protection. 

 

 

 

 

 


Sub-strategy 3.4 
Equipping personnel with international-level capacity and 
standards to support trade and investment. Revising personnel development systems and curricula 
to meet the needs of the labor market and businesses by allowing the private sector to participate 
in curriculum development and share expenses incurred. Digitalizing pedagogical methodologies 
to facilitate self-learning and knowledge usage in income generation and business building. 
Raising labor skills and teaching levels at Thai educational institutions to international standards 
or the same level as those of leading global institutions to ensure the usefulness of skills in 
professional life. 

 

 


Milestone 6: 
Thailand is ASEAN’s Hub for Digital and Smart Electronics Industry 

1. Past Development Situation 

The electrical and electronics industry has been Thailand’s significant industry for more than 
50 years, playing an instrumental role in the country's economy. At present, Thailand is the world’s 
No. 13 and ASEAN’s No. 4 exporter of electronic and electrical appliances with an export value 
of 1.9 trillion baht (or 24.3 per cent of total exports) and involving more than 750,000 
employments. On the other hand, Thailand’s electrical and electronics industry still heavily relies 
on foreign direct investments, and Thai businesses are mainly assemblers with no native 
technology or research-to-commercialization links. The industry is also labor-intensive with low 
capital. As a result, Thailand’s electrical and electronics industry lags behind regional leaders and 
fails to create sufficient value added to the economy. 

Meanwhile, technological advances have rapidly changed and constantly impacted consumer 
behaviors, business models, and innovations. The COVID-19 pandemic in early 2020, a shift in 
the Thai population structure towards an aging society within 2023, the availability of digital 
infrastructure with high quality and nationwide coverage, and declining prices of smartphones and 
computers which increase people’s accessibility, have accelerated the adoption of digital 
technology in the government sector, the private sector and the people, especially for data and 
online transactions, as well as the rapid growth of Thailand’s digital industry despite the 
contraction of the Thai and global economies. 

Most of Thailand’s digital industry relies on imports particularly for the hardware industry, 
software and digital content, including smart gadgets, games, applications and online platforms 
(e.g. Facebook, LINE, Google, Twitter, Shopee, Lazada, and Grab) whereas Thai companies can 
only produce a small part such as accounting software, which has a small market share because 
most users are small and medium-sized local enterprises with low purchasing power. Apart from 
that, there is an export of digital products, namely games to Cambodia, Laos, Myanmar, and 
Vietnam. A delay in overall digital development is a result of a low level of technological and 
innovation readiness and a lack of advanced digital skills among the Thai population, together with 
outdated laws and regulations which are unconducive for foreign investment from global tech 
leaders as well as for startups. As a result, Thailand has lost an opportunity to generate economic 
value added from advanced digital technology, specifically big data from digital transactions, to 
develop products and services to respond to the needs and behaviors of users. 

For these reasons, there is a need to accelerate the digital industry’s competitiveness and 
elevate the electrical and electronics industry in order to turn Thailand into a key global production 
base for smart electronics. In addition, Thailand needs the digital transformation of economic and 
social development with complete digital immunity and an enabling ecosystem conducive to the 
development of smart electronics and a digital industry so that the country can make full use of 
rapidly changing technological advancement in effectively creating economic value add. 

2. Development Goals 

2.1 Connections between Milestone 6 and the main targets and goals of the 13th National 
Economic and Social Development Plan and the National Strategy 

Milestone 6, whereby Thailand is ASEAN’s hub for digital and smart electronics 
industry, is consistent with three goals of the 13th Plan, namely, 1) Target 1: Restructuring the 
manufacturing and service sectors towards an innovation-based economy by expanding the 


current electronics industry and shifting towards the smart electronics industry with a focus on 
manufacturing key parts in the ASEAN supply chain, which will be of high value and high demand 
on future markets, together with boosting the digital industry’s competitiveness; 2) Target 2: 
Developing human capital for the new global era by creating a capable workforce in line with 
the needs of future industries and services, including the country’s smart electronics and digital 
service industries; and 3) Target 5: Enhancing Thailand’s capability to cope with changes and 
risks under the new global context by encouraging the use of digital technology in diverse sectors 
and dimensions. 

Moreover, Milestone 6 corresponds to the National Strategy in the areas of 1) Security 
with the goal of preparing and developing human capital, related tools and technology as well as 
Big Data technology to be ready to address all forms of threats, together with preventing and 
addressing existing and future national security problems; 2) Competitiveness enhancement 
through next-generation industrial and service development with a focus on advancing Thailand’s 
target industries into the industries of the future that will become the pillars of the Thai economy, 
creating an enabling environment conducive to industrial and service development and developing 
sufficient, high quality, comprehensive and affordable technological infrastructure; and 3) Eco-
friendly development and growth by developing sustainable growth in an eco-friendly society 
through the use of technological advancement in business operations and daily life as well as in 
reducing GHG emissions and creating a low-carbon society. 

2.2 Goals, Indicators and Targets 

Target 1 The domestic digital economy has expanded. 

Indicator 1.1 The proportion of value added from the digital technology industry to 
GDP increases to 30 per cent by 2027. 

Indicator 1.2 There is a public digital dashboard to track the digital transactions of 
government services by 2023, and all government services are digitized by 2027. 

Indicator 1.3 The value of expenditure on research and development and innovation 
increases by at least 5 per cent per year by 2027. 

Indicator 1.4 High-speed internet services are accessible and available to people in 
every village, community and tourist destination. 

Target 2 The export of Thailand’s smart electronics industry has increased. 

Indicator 2.1 The export share of the country’s smart electronics accounts for 60 per 
cent of total electrical and electronics industry exports by 2027. 

Indicator 2.2 There are 400,000 workers with “smart electronics system integrator” 
skills to accommodate an expansion of the smart electronics industry by 2027. 

Target 3 Thailand’s digital and smart electronics industries have become stronger. 

Indicator 3.1 At least three of the world's biggest tech companies invest in Thailand 
by 2027. 

Indicator 3.2 The number of tech startups increases by no less than 6,000 by 2027, a 
third of which have relocated from other countries. 


Indicator 3.3 Workers who are digital experts (level 4) account for no less than 6 per 
cent of the Thai population by 2027. 

Indicator 3.4 Thailand has international internet traffic connecting and exchange 
point(s), which enhances the competitiveness of digital services by 2027. 

 


3. Strategy Map 

 

 

 

 

 


4. Development Strategies 

Strategy 1 Bringing forth Thailand’s digitally driven society and economy: 

Sub-strategy 1.1 Developing digital services and platforms to support the digital 
transformation of government administration into e-government, a fully digital government, by 
encouraging government agencies to use technology and digital devices to perform duties, 
including online systems for clerical works, e-payments, cloud storage, electronic services, and 
transactions for clients as well as full data integration and connection across all government 
agencies. 

Sub-strategy 1.2 Promoting and developing domestic entrepreneurs to adopt 
technology, digital innovation as well as smart electronics in production and services to increase 
productivity and profitability. Providing funds to support the adoption of smart electronic and 
digital tools, particularly by SMEs. Attaching importance to the development of digital platforms 
to assist agricultural markets and Thai agricultural operators in utilizing digital technology to 
comprehensively support the agricultural industry as well as in building preparedness for disasters 
and seasonal changes. Promoting an extension of the agricultural sector to include production, 
such as smart factories and smart medicine, as well as boosting service transactions on Thai digital 
platforms by different sectors, such as agricultural markets, tourism, medicine and wellness, and 
finance. 

Sub-strategy 1.3 Encouraging the use of technology in infrastructure management 
and government services by designing digital platforms to support all dimensions of development, 
such as platforms for energy trade, carbon market, smart city, telemedicine and online education. 

Sub-strategy 1.4 Promoting the use of advanced digital technologies in everyday 
living, including e-learning, smart gadgets and electronic transactions. Raising awareness on social 
media threats as well as basic skills to build immunity to fake news. 

Strategy 2 Further developing the existing electrical and electronics industry: 

Sub-strategy 2.1 Supporting enterprises in the electrical and electronics industry 
to shift from original equipment manufacturers (OEM) to original design manufacturers (ODM), 
as well as adopting modern manufacturing innovations to transition into Industry 4.0 and a green 
electronics industry through fiscal and financial tools as well as other innovation promotion 
policies. 

Sub-strategy 2.2 Encouraging enterprises in the smart electronics industry to 
adjust their development model in order to become ASEAN’s key manufacturers of smart 
electronic gadgets and parts, focusing on the production of sought-after and high-value key parts 
in the global supply chain and a shift to advanced electronics industry, such as the manufacturing 
of supercapacitors, optoelectronics, and microelectronics. Encouraging the industrial sector to use 
materials from domestic manufacturers. 

Sub-strategy 2.3 Encouraging enterprises to develop their own brands and boost 
exports of smart electrical appliances and electronic gadgets, focusing on foreign markets where 
Thailand has potentials, such as ASEAN, Europe, and the United States. 

Sub-strategy 2.4 Promoting investment in research and development of advanced 
technologies in the smart electrical and electronics industry as well as the development of product 


champions, including EV sensor and electronic systems. Providing incentives for starting new 
businesses to manufacture smart electronic products and parts. 

Sub-strategy 2.5 Developing internationally accepted standards and rules for 
accessing data from smart gadgets. Supporting the exchange and linkage of data among 
government agencies and with local and regional private sectors to build big data for research and 
development of relevant products and services. 

Sub-strategy 2.6 Attracting and encouraging foreign investment by collaborating 
with Thai businesses or joint ventures, together with giving privileges for investors that encourage 
or press for specialist partners to transfer knowledge and expertise to Thai enterprises with a focus 
on upstream industries with advanced manufacturing technology, which are the basis for the smart 
electronics industry. 

Strategy 3 Advocating for the local digital industry with competitiveness: 

Sub-strategy 3.1 Attracting investment from international big tech enterprises for 
the benefit of all Thai businesses throughout the supply chain, such as investment in diverse cloud 
data centers for ASEAN populations. Attracting big tech investment in Thailand’s digital 
infrastructure, (e.g. data centers, e-government, cloud, and virtual platforms). Establishing 
investment formats and privileges that generate domestic economic value add, such as partnerships 
with Thai businesses and employing a Thai workforce. 

Sub-strategy 3.2 Supporting the development of digital infrastructure to help 
Thailand leverage its geographical advantages to enhance the competitiveness of Thailand’s 
digital services by 2027 by, for example, expanding international internet bandwidth, linking 
international networks to cut costs and times for building data centers, and developing domestic 
public cloud services. 

Sub-strategy 3.3 
Developing and elevating the competitiveness of manufacturers, 
developers, designers, and system builders in the local digital industry and services to become 
providers of user-friendly digital solutions that meet the needs of local or ASEAN markets by 
piloting in the fields of agriculture, medicine and wellness, tourism, and local administrative 
management. 

Sub-strategy 3.4 
Promoting the development of e-commerce software and the 
creation of digital content that creatively incorporate Thai culture, lifestyles and tourist 
destinations etc. to generate economic value add in all aspects, such as virtual museums, virtual 
cultural performance stages, virtual concerts and virtual movie characters. 

Sub-strategy 3.5 
Promoting investment and domestic research and development in 
the digital industry and services to meet the needs of domestic and ASEAN markets. Attracting and 
developing tech companies of all sizes, ranging from startups to global corporations, and building 
a digital ecosystem to increase opportunities for Thai tech businesses. Attracting and developing 
talent to enable a great leap forward in the development of the Thai workforce and industries. 
Offering appropriate privileges, such as tax measures, to boost investment in digital startups. 

Strategy 4 
Creating an ecosystem to support the development of smart electronics and 
digital industry and services: 

Sub-strategy 4.1 
Developing high-quality, comprehensive, sufficient and 
accessible (in terms of both geography and pricing) technological infrastructure to ensure that the 


population has sufficient social protection and is able to access education, healthcare, government 
services and other economic and social opportunities, as well as support future digital needs both 
quantitatively and qualitatively. 

Sub-strategy 4.2 
Developing the workforce to support future technological shifts 
among enterprises in different industries and services, including the local smart electronics 
industry and digital industry and services. Equipping workers with skills in line with the needs of 
future industries and services. Improving educational curricula through collaborations between the 
public, private and academic sectors (domestic and international). Accelerating labor skills 
enhancement while developing professional standards for workers in technology-related 
industries. Attracting foreign personnel in areas with shortages such as software development and 
disruptive technology. 

Sub-strategy 4.3 
Pressing for and revising relevant laws to promote a digital 
economy and consumer protection. Strictly enforcing copyright laws as well as pressing for e-
waste management laws and regulations. Developing and revising government regulations which 
hinder investments, recruitment of highly skilled labor, adoption of technology and digital 
innovation, and overall growth of the digital industry and services. For example, mandating 
technology transfers as a condition for large-scale public procurements to boost the domestic 
production of infrastructure components. Promoting sandboxes to encourage a revision of laws 
and regulations. Establishing a system to monitor and regulate digital services, particularly 
transactions on foreign platforms, for the purpose of taxation. 

Sub-strategy 4.4 
Advocating for the use of appropriate fiscal and financial policy 
tools that correspond to each industry's context in order to stimulate investment in research and 
development and innovation as well as boost competitiveness of the smart electronics and digital 
industries and services, such as tax reduction for importation of digital technology and a 
verification, monitoring and protection system for consumers in the digital industry. 

Sub-strategy 4.5 
Pressing for the development of cybersecurity risk management 
systems in accordance with international principles together with data sovereignty policies to 
protect Thailand-developed technologies and platforms by formulating rules and conditions related 
to data sovereignty. 

 

 


Milestone 7: Thailand Has Strong, High-Potential and Competitive SMEs 

1. Past Development Situation 

Small and Medium-sized Enterprises (SMEs) are Thailand’s key enterprises. SMEs constitute 
99 per cent of businesses in the country as well as generating 71.86 per cent of all employments, 
which contributes 5.6 trillion baht in gross value add to the 2021 economy (calculated by the 
volume of SME GDP) or 34.6 per cent of Thailand’s 2021 GDP, with an average annual growth 
of 3.4 per cent during the five-year period of the 12th NESDP (2017-2021). However, the COVID-
19 pandemic in late 2019 has caused massive declines in revenues to a large number of businesses. 
Consequently, it triggered a severe liquidity crisis, suspension of workers and operations or even 
permanent closures among many SMEs. 

The government and relevant agencies have continuously promoted and supported SME 
development; for example, building capacity for business operations through trainings on 
entrepreneurial attitudes and skills, financial literacy, manufacturing and services, product and 
packaging development, and marketing. Nevertheless, most of them are general and basic trainings 
that are not tailored to the diverse demands and forms of SMEs. Therefore, operators cannot apply 
much in their business operations. Gaps remain in referrals and systematic monitoring and 
evaluation, whereas the government has focused on building an enabling ecosystem for businesses 
through integrated budgeting for SME promotion; for instance, appropriate funding, market 
promotion, standards, research and development and innovation by relevant agencies. Moreover, 
a considerable number of SMEs are informal and not listed in a proper system, resulting in the 
public sector’s lack of clear and sufficient data on them and therefore limiting the ability to develop 
appropriate policies and measures to support, assist, remedy and meet the specific needs of SMEs, 
which are highly diverse in terms of size, type, and growth level. 

Fast-changing and intense global and social contexts underlie challenges from internal and 
external factors on SMEs, while the need to keep up with the pace of changed and enhance 
competitiveness, particularly amidst limitless technological growth, forces SMEs to transition their 
business operations to technology-dependent businesses. Besides, Thailand’s demographic shift 
into an ageing society impacts the number of workers as well as consumer behaviors, including a 
shift to consume more health-related products and services. Sudden climate change impacts also 
affect the reliability of natural products, while consumers become increasingly aware and choose 
more sustainable and eco-friendly products and services. In addition, the severe impacts of the 
COVID-19 pandemic forced SMEs to become more flexible in business operations and adopt 
digital transformation, automation and machinery as well as research and development and 
innovation to boost productivity and efficiency, connect with the global value chain, and decrease 
overreliance on specific markets, which are principles for creating business opportunities and 
diversifying risks. 

In the meantime, the public sector needs to promptly improve and enhance the efficiency of 
the SME promotion and development system to become more relevant to the needs of 
entrepreneurs and based on an understanding of diverse businesses, as well as incentivizing SMEs 
to join the system and undertake development in an inclusive and equal manner in order for their 
businesses to thrive and expand. 

2. Development Goals 


2.1 Connections between Milestone 7 and the main targets and goals of the 13th National 
Economic and Social Development Plan and the National Strategy 

Milestone 7, whereby Thailand has strong, high-potential and competitive SMEs, is 
consistent with the National Strategy in the areas of: 1) Competitiveness enhancement 
particularly with two following goals: 1) Thailand becomes a developed country with stable and 
sustainable economic growth; and 2) Thailand’s national competitiveness is increased and under 
the guideline on “developing modern, entrepreneur-based economy,” which emphasizes the 
development of modern entrepreneurs with entrepreneurial skills, spirit, competitiveness and clear 
identities who can adapt and adopt digital tools and innovation in business operations and are 
supported in securing conventional and alternative funding sources through the use of financial 
and non-financial data, as well as being able to access online/offline domestic and international 
markets that fit their capacities, while being provided with information, facilitation and support to 
access the government’s central data and knowledge repository in an equal and comprehensive 
manner; 2) Developing and strengthening human capital with the goal: Thailand has adequate 
social surroundings suitable for life-cycle development and under the guideline on “promoting 
positive values and culture of business sectors” by encouraging businesses to practice good 
governance, embedding a business mindset of which social costs are taken into account, and 
promoting corporate social responsibility and social enterprises; and 3) Social cohesion and 
equity with the goals of 3.1) distributing economic and social hubs and providing opportunities 
for every sector to take part in national development at all levels; and 3.2) enhancing the capability 
of local communities in the areas of development, self-reliance and self-management to build a 
quality society, particularly under the guideline on “adjusting local economic structures” to elevate 
farmers to become entrepreneurs in agricultural SMEs. 

Milestone 7 also corresponds to three targets in the 13th Plan, namely: 1) Target 1: 
Restructuring the manufacturing and service sectors towards an innovation-based economy 
by developing and enhancing competitiveness of SMEs in every sector as well as enabling SMEs 
to connect to the global value chain with an enabling ecosystem appropriate for each type and 
sector of business; 2) Target 2: Developing human capital for the new global era by equipping 
Thai people with skills and traits that fit the modern world in terms of knowledge, behavioral skills, 
and manners according to the norms of society; and 3) Target 3: Creating a society of 
opportunities and fairness by reducing disparities in income, wealth and business 
competitiveness and by promoting fair and open competition among SMEs to compete sustainably. 

2.2 Goals, Indicators and Targets 

Target 1 There is an enabling environment conducive to the growth and competitiveness of 
SMEs. 

Indicator 1.1 The proportion of SMEs registrations with the Social Security Office (in 
accordance with Section 33) to the total number of SMEs increases to 20 per cent; 
the proportion of SMEs with juristic person registrations to the total number of 
SMEs increases to 40 per cent; the proportion of SMEs with VAT registrations to 
the total number of SMEs increases to 5 per cent; and the proportion of SMEs with 
commercial registrations to the total number of SMEs increases to 20 per cent by 
2027. 


Indicator 1.2 The value of capital raising through capital markets increases by no less than 12 
per cent per year; the proportion of SME’s access to loan to total loans increases 
to no less than 60 per cent by 2027. 

Indicator 1.3 Competitiveness in terms of trade regulations ranks no lower than 40th in 2027; 
there are at least two subordinate legislations under the Trade Competition Act 
B.E. 2560 (2017) per year on average; and the proportion of resolved complaints 
to the total number of complaints increases to 80-90 per cent per year. 

Indicator 1.4 There is a current, comprehensive SME database system accessible to both the 
government and SMEs. 

Target 2 SMEs have high business capability, improvability, and adaptability to new 
competitions. 

Indicator 2.1 The proportion of SME GDP to overall GDP increases to 40 per cent, while the 
proportion of SME exports to overall exports increases to 20 per cent by 2027. 

Indicator 2.2 The proportion of value of SME e-Commerce to the value of overall e-Commerce 
increases by no less than 10 per cent from the baseline year (2021). 

Indicator 2.3 The number of new SME exporters rises by no less than 2,000 per year. 

Indicator 2.4 SMEs’ domestic market share increases to 25 per cent by 2027. 

Indicator 2.5 The value of public procurement participated by SMEs increases by no less than 
5 per cent per year on average. 

Indicator 2.6 The value of VAT collection from SMEs increases by no less than 10 per cent per 
year on average. 

Target 3 SMEs can effectively access and receive government supports. 

Indicator 3.1 The number of Series C startups rises to 20 in 2027. 

Indicator 3.2 The number of social enterprise registrations increases by no less than 25 per cent 
per year. 

 


3. Strategy Map 

 

 

 

 

 


4. Development Strategies 

Strategy 1 Developing an enabling ecosystem conducive to SMEs’ business operations and 
competitiveness enhancement: 

Sub-strategy 1.1 Expediting a revision of regulations obstructing business 
operations to ensure equitable competition between SMEs and large businesses by developing 
competitive behavior monitoring tools to be used in formulating corrective and control measures 
against market domination. Articulating, and strictly enforcing, business operation guidelines to 
ensure appropriate and equitable competition among entrepreneurs. Reviewing and revising 
unnecessary laws and regulations. 

Sub-strategy 1.2 Facilitating every step of SME business operations; for example, 
reducing steps and timeframes in new business registrations and approvals. Developing an e-
government platform for all procedures regarding public services. Raising the efficiency of the 
Business Support Centers to assist entrepreneurs in starting and conducting businesses as well as 
developing and disseminating business operation manuals that include every business category 
and are accessible to entrepreneurs. 

Sub-strategy 1.3 Developing digital infrastructure and standard systems 
accessible to SMEs at low costs by providing partial subsidies for the use of technology and basic 
software in boosting business efficiency and standards, especially in analysis, testing and 
certification. These aim to help SMEs lower developing and testing costs as well as acquire 
certifications for products and services, national and international standards. Expanding services 
of incubation centers specializing in specific businesses to cover the development and 
enhancement of SMEs’ products and services to achieve quality, innovativeness, and international 
competitiveness. 

Strategy 2 Developing a platform to link SME databases and encouraging SMEs to 
participate in the system: 

Sub-Strategy 2.1 Establishing one ID system for SMEs and encouraging SMEs to 
adopt the system in digital transactions. Reducing steps and paperwork required in government 
transactions. 

Sub-Strategy 2.2 Developing a central portal to link SME data with the e-
government platform. Promoting data sharing between agencies and allowing relevant persons to 
access real-time big data by offering incentives and useful services to encourage SMEs to join 
database systems. Meanwhile, developing a procedure for requesting SMEs’ consent in data 
sharing between agencies for the purpose of developing targeted policies and supportive measures. 

Sub-strategy 2.3 Transforming data and knowledge repository for SMEs into an 
online system as well as comprehensive e-services. Building a digital platform for data and 
knowledge repository accessible to SMEs. This platform will enable them to perform market 
analysis and to develop or enhance the efficiency of products, services, and manufacturing 
processes by themselves. 

Strategy 3 Building financial mechanisms compatible with the unique characteristics of 
SMEs to ensure all SME groups have comprehensive access to funding: 

Sub-strategy 3.1 Encouraging financial institutions, banks, and non-financial 
institutions to use business data and digital footprints in approving loans to SMEs by using digital 


transactions or key trade data in digital form to verify business status and act as collaterals in place 
of conventional collaterals. 

Sub-strategy 3.2 
Determining the role of Specialized Financial Institutions (SFIs) 
to include clear measures on loans and guarantees for each SME segment, particularly for small 
and micro enterprises. Identifying guidelines and criteria for developing special loan schemes 
different from those of conventional financial institutions to increase SMEs’ accessibility to loans. 

Sub-strategy 3.3 
Encouraging SMEs to raise funds through capital markets or 
diverse sources in line with their business models in addition to conventional loans. For instance, 
fundraising through the Market for Alternative Investment (MAI), crowdfunding, person-to-
person loans, and venture capital. Granting SMEs and startups in the financial field opportunities 
to expand their businesses by providing alternative funding in line with business potentials and 
business models of other SMEs. 

Strategy 4 
Encouraging and developing SMEs to become digital entrepreneurs: 

Sub-strategy 4.1 
Fostering basic business knowledge especially knowledge and 
skills of the youth and entrepreneurs regarding digital, finance, new marketing, export market 
acquisition, business models, creative economy, exploitation of cultural capital, as well as other 
in-depth knowledge and skills as needed for specific sectors and types of business. Building SMEs’ 
preparedness for coping with intense and fast-changing competition in the modern market, as well 
as for sustainable business operations, taking into consideration the environment, society and good 
governance, in order to achieve international competitiveness. 

Sub-strategy 4.2 
Offering benefits and incentives to encourage SMEs to invest in 
and utilize digital technology, machinery and automation in management, and to enhance 
manufacturing and service efficiency. Offering tax benefits and low-interest loans for investment 
in technology or machinery together with partially supporting consultancy fees and training 
expenses. 

Sub-strategy 4.3 
Developing international trade platforms accessible to SMEs and 
allowing domestic SMEs to leverage safe and secure country’s platforms in order to facilitate 
access to potential markets in other countries. Stimulating SMEs with export capabilities to use 
trade privileges. In addition, providing preparedness and remedies for people who are affected by 
Free Trade Agreements (FTA) and international collaborative frameworks. 

Sub-strategy 4.4 
Encouraging collaboration between SMEs within the same 
segment and with large corporations within the supply chain, especially in the S-curve industries. 
This aims to enhance competitiveness throughout the supply chain. Promoting network building 
and business alliances. Pairing and encouraging large corporations with potentials to provide 
comprehensive assistance to SMEs in the supply chain. Organizing forums for exchanging 
business ideas and experiences to develop sustainable collaboration among SMEs at all levels. 

Strategy 5 
Raising the efficiency of the public sector’s SME promotion schemes: 

Sub-strategy 5.1 
Expanding business development services that reach specific 
needs of SMEs as well as developing a referral system by expanding on the government’s coupon 
initiative. Developing registration and capacity assessment systems for private providers of 
business development services to ensure that SMEs choose business development services with 
quality and government-certified standards. 


Sub-strategy 5.2 
Supporting the Office of SME Promotion (OSMEP) as a policy-
making body to fully integrate SME assistance and promotion services. Allocating sufficient 
budgets for continuous SME promotion through the SME Promotion Fund. 

Sub-strategy 5.3 
Adjusting monitoring and evaluation mechanisms and processes 
by establishing common indicators across all agencies and allowing more engagement by 
representatives of SMEs, the private sector and academia to ensure co-ownership of the policies 
between the government, the private sector and the people. 

Strategy 6 
Creating an enabling ecosystem conducive for startups and innovation-driven 
entrepreneurs as well as providing access to appropriate sources of funding and 
linkages to international networks and markets: 

Sub-strategy 6.1 
Reviewing and revising laws to increase ease of business 
operations, especially those for startups. For example, recruiting personnel with globally 
acknowledged technological expertise and company formation specialists to develop an enabling 
ecosystem as well as advance startups who require an ecosystem and business practices in starting, 
running, and progressing unconventional businesses. 

Sub-strategy 6.2 
Alleviating constraints on fundraising to allow public-private 
partnerships in developing seed funding and private equity funds for individuals, which give 
startups mentors in business building. These will allow access to capital and continuous 
fundraising, and opportunities to establish networks with funders abroad while attracting 
international talent to join local startups. 

Sub-strategy 6.3 
Supporting a linkage between startups and the international 
market by encouraging startups to participate in incubation programs, especially international 
incubation. Fostering collaboration with special development zones for startups and leading 
foreign universities in order to give young startups opportunities to achieve Series C or higher 
status. 

Strategy 7 
Enhancing social enterprises’ business capabilities: 

Sub-strategy 7.1 
Enacting an organic law under the Social Enterprise Promotion 
Act B.E. 2562 (2019) to mitigate constraints in social enterprise registrations to encourage more 
registrations by non-juristic enterprises. Stimulating the setting up of social enterprise funds. 

Sub-strategy 7.2 
Supporting the development of specific sustainable business 
models for social enterprises through collaborative mechanisms among the public sector, the 
private sector and the Social Enterprise Association. Promoting collaboration with international 
experts. 

Sub-strategy 7.3 
Offering benefits and incentives for joint investment with social 
enterprises to encourage large private companies to correspond with corporate social responsibility 
policies by supporting the growth of domestic social enterprises. 

 

 


Milestone 8: 
Thailand Has Smart Cities as well as Safe and Livable Regions with 
Sustainable Growth 

1. 
Past Development Situation 

The 9th Strategy of the 12th National Economic and Social Development Plan aims for 
economic growth distribution and an increase in income per capita. However, past development 
outcomes of the 9th strategy have not been fully achieved. 

Although past regional development mostly resulted in a reduction in income inequalities, 
economic activities continue to concentrate in Bangkok and the Central and Eastern regions. In 
fact, Bangkok accounts for the highest proportion of provincial Gross Provincial Product (GPP) to 
Gross Domestic Product (GDP). It was the only province with an increasing share of GPP from 
32.7 per cent in 2017 to 33.8 per cent in 2019 whereas other regions had faced a decrease in their 
shares of Gross Regional Product (GRP) to GDP over the same period. The GRPs of the Northern, 
North-eastern, Southern, and Southern Border regions account for 7.7 per cent, 9.4 per cent, 7.9 
per cent and 0.8 per cent of GDP, respectively. 

Meanwhile, spatial development has made considerable progress, especially 10 Special 
Border Economic Zones (SBEZ). These SBEZs have received BOI (Board of Investment) 
promotion with a total investment of 8,658 million baht from 2015 to 2021 (as of June). In these 
SBEZs, there are 4,975 new companies set up with total registered capital of 9,823.03 million baht 
while more than 456,052 foreign workers have been employed since 2017-2021 (as of May). 
During 2016-2021, total infrastructure investment, including highways, airport facilities, bridges, 
and custom offices amounted to 47,223.45 million baht. In the Eastern Economic Corridor (EEC), 
BOI had granted an investment promotion of 1,455.121 billion baht from 2016 to 2020. 

Regarding urban development, Thailand has increasingly become urbanized. In 2020, 
around 23 million people (34.47 per cent of the total population) lived in urban areas or 
municipalities, which had increased from 21 million people (33.91 per cent of total population) in 
2011. 

Currently, all levels of development have experienced repercussions of the global 
economic downturn and the COVID-19 pandemic, which caused severe economic and social 
impacts. The economy in each region has shrunk due to a stop to or suspension of manufacturing 
and services, especially in tourism and export-oriented industries. A large number of workers have 
suffered from downsizing and dismissals. Most of the population have experienced a decrease in 
incomes, while some people faced income shortages. The unemployment rate has soared and many 
workers moved back to their hometowns to take up agricultural work. Therefore, adaptation and 
adjustments are needed in the upcoming development of the manufacturing and service sectors. 
Emphasis should be put on development to strengthen local economies and production and services 
for the domestic market to meet consumers’ changing demands, especially for health-related 
products. 

Although the Special Economic Zones have been affected by a slowdown in investments, 
some segments continue to attract interest and continuous investments, especially local target 
industries. Therefore, the focus of development should be on ensuring infrastructure readiness as 
well as reviewing and revising investment promotion and facilitation measures to accommodate 
investments. Once the COVID-19 pandemic abates, the Special Economic Zones will again attract 
more attention and confidence from investors and draw more investments to the area. 


Urban development has also been comparatively affected. Similar to the regional 
development, trade and services in urban areas will need to adapt to the new normal and people 
will also have to change their consumption and commuting behaviors. These changes might bring 
about negative consequences, especially on the social and environmental aspects of cities. 
Therefore, Thailand needs to urgently resolve these issues to ensure sustainable area and urban 
development, resilience, responsiveness to changes, and inclusive access to public services and 
good quality of life for all population groups. 

2. 
Development Goals 

2.1 
Connections between Milestone 8 and the main targets and goals of the 13th National 
Economic and Social Development Plan and the National Strategy 

Milestone 8, whereby Thailand has smart cities as well as safe and livable regions with 
sustainable growth, is consistent with three areas of the National Strategy (2018-2037), namely: 
1) Competitiveness enhancement with the goal: Thailand becomes a developed country with 
stable and sustainable economic growth; 2) Social cohesion and equity with the goal of 
distributing economic and social hubs and providing opportunities for every sector to take part in 
national development at all levels, as well as enhancing the capability of local communities in 
areas of development, self-reliance and self-management to build a high-quality society; and 3) 
Eco-friendly development and growth with the goal of ensuring utilization and development 
growth based on balanced natural resources within the ecosystem’s capacity. 

Milestone 8 also corresponds to all of the five targets of the 13th Plan, namely: 1) Target 
1: Restructuring the manufacturing and service sectors towards an innovation-based 
economy by enhancing local economies and enabling local enterprises to connect to the value 
chain of the national-level manufacturing sector while disseminating benefits to local economies; 
2) Target 2: Developing human capital for the new global era by creating a quality workforce 
in line with the needs of the labor market and strengthening the security of life through area and 
urban development; 3) Target 3: Creating a society of opportunities and fairness by making 
cities livable with a good quality of life for all people, taking ecological landscape into 
consideration; 4) Target 4: Ensuring the transition of production and consumption towards 
sustainability by encouraging cities to use natural resources efficiently as well as reduce waste 
and pollution for the health and well-being of people at all levels; and 5) Target 5: Enhancing 
Thailand’s capability to cope with changes and risks under the new global context and 
overcome future threats by stimulating cities to shift to smart cities through the digital 
transformation of local governments as well as build preparedness for disaster and adaptation to 
all forms of changes. 

2.2 
Goals, Indicators and Targets 

Target 1 
There is an increase in the growth of regional economies and investment in Special 
Economic Zones. 

Indicator 1.1 
GRP per capita is not lower than GDP per capita. 

Indicator 1.2 
Investment in the Special Economic Zones increases according to the 
development targets of the 9th Master Plan on Special Economic Zones under the 
National Strategy, with 500 billion baht of investment in the Eastern Economic 
Corridor, 100 billion baht in the Southern Economic Corridor and 10 billion baht 
in SBEZs. 


Target 2 
There is a decrease in the uneven income distribution to regions. 

Indicator 2.1 
The GINI coefficient of the regions is lower than the country’s GINI coefficient. 

Indicator 2.2 
Employment rate in the regions is higher than that in 2020 (except for Bangkok 
where the employment should not exceed 13 per cent of the country’s total 
employment). 

Target 3 
Cities are developed to become livable, sustainable, resilient and inclusive. 

Indicator 3.1 
The number of smart cities is no less than 105 by 2027. 

Indicator 3.2 
The number of livable and sustainable cities increases. 


3. 
Strategy Map 

 

 

 

 


4. 
Development Strategies 

Strategy 1 
Strengthening local economies: 

Sub-strategy 1.1 
Developing the regions to become the country’s key economic 
bases in accordance with the regional and economic corridor development plans, which include 
the Northern Economic Corridor, Northeastern Economic Corridor, Central-Western Economic 
Corridor, Southern Economic Corridor, Special Border Economic Zones, and Eastern Economic 
Corridor. Using these economic areas as important means to spread growth to the regions. 
Developing supply chains to connect within and between areas as well as with neighboring areas 
and other countries. Determining target industries in the areas where the new economy bases are 
located in line with local potentials. Connecting SMEs and community enterprises to the supply 
chain in the target industries to create economic opportunities, to extensively distribute the benefits 
of development, and to advance key economic bases to accommodate investment and employment. 
Further developing the Eastern Economic Corridor to ensure balanced and sustainable growth and 
to become an industrial and service base with advanced technology and innovation by promoting 
investment and employment in the area as well as encouraging continuous technology transfer. 

Sub-strategy 1.2 
Strengthening community economies by using networks in the 
community, such as households, temples and schools, as key driving mechanisms. Fostering 
knowledge transfers to the community from local educational institutions to boost development 
capacity and add value to economic activities in line with local identity, social and cultural capital 
and local potentials. Promoting the development of good quality, standard and safe products and 
services based on research, technology and innovation as well as local knowledge. Developing 
databases and e-service platforms for the purpose of planning on product development and 
manufacturing. Increasing the community’s competitiveness to ensure sustainable income 
generation. Encouraging the setting up of clustering and strong networks, including community 
enterprise groups, SMEs and farmers’ collectives, to build immunity to all forms of change during 
crises. Promoting shareholding among community members. Strengthening community-level 
financial institutions to increase access to funding by businesses and enterprises in the community, 
also allowing local financial institutions to play a role in systematically transferring knowledge on 
capital management, liquidity and liability management together with developing new types of 
loans to meet the needs and capability of the community. Promoting platform usage to generate 
local employment and equitable access to employment. 

Sub-strategy 1.3 
Promoting local management of market mechanisms to forge a 
balance between local production and consumption and to generate income from external markets. 
Advocating for innovation in local supply chain management to reduce losses from 
overproduction, cut costs and time in transporting products between community and regional hubs, 
as well as maintain product quality. Supporting employment generation and the employment of 
locals throughout the supply chain to accommodate the working age population in the areas and 
returnees following the aftermath of the COVID-19 pandemic. Promoting the adoption of digital 
technology in circulating products and services within the development area and the city, 
community enterprises, SMEs and farmers’ collectives. Stimulating consumption in line, and in 
balance with, local production based on the Sustainable Consumption and Production (SCP) 
principle. Reviewing and revising rules and public policies that induce concentration of certain 
agricultural products and hinder procurement from producers in that consumption area. 


Sub-strategy 1.4 
Addressing issues regarding urban vulnerable groups. Increasing 
access to urban infrastructure, such as urban design based on the universal design principles and 
housing security. Providing inclusive welfare for all inhabitants in order to improve quality of life 
for vulnerable groups to ensure good physical and mental health. Increasing the capacity of urban 
community networks to assist and provide initial care for the vulnerable both in normal time and 
during crises. 

Strategy 2 
Promoting collaboration mechanisms among the public sector, the private 
sector, the public, and civil society in area and urban development: 

Sub-strategy 2.1 
Supporting area and urban development through various forms 
of cross-sectoral participation. Promoting urban development through various forms, including 
urban development charters and urban development companies. Exploring the feasibility of 
enhancing the charters’ driving mechanisms to ensure continuity in urban development. Taking 
lessons from successful cases such as the Khon Kaen model, which attracts investment and boost 
the employment of locals, to scale up in other areas. Promoting the role of social enterprises in 
area and urban development, as well as in developing new businesses and creating jobs, by 
providing initial protection measures from business and financial risks. Imparting skills and 
knowledge to the community for self-reliance; for example, through health enterprises for social 
benefits, which focus on urban farming as well as making the city a food safety zone. Expanding 
the network to connect together social enterprises in the development area and city to foster 
sustainable economic and social security. Revising government regulations to better allow 
collaboration between the government and development partners, including the private sector, the 
public, and civil society. Encouraging connecting ecological areas between cities. Promoting 
collective planning and implementation to ensure the appropriateness, flexibility and agility of 
solutions. 

Sub-strategy 2.2 
Establishing an ICT system for collaborative area and urban 
development among the public sector, the private sector and the public. Reviewing and revising 
regulations that obstruct access to ICT data in order to promote collaboration among development 
partners. Supporting the disclosure and sharing of data between the public sector, private sector 
and the public to benefit area and urban development planning. Supporting open-access research, 
innovation, data collection and processing for the purpose of area and urban management, 
including city data collection and management system, ICT system for local-level budgeting and 
project management, and digital skills enhancement. 

Sub-strategy 2.3 
Promoting the development of smart cities with change and 
disaster preparedness that respond to the needs of all population groups in the area. Placing 
importance on smart city development with considerations of communities’ traditional values in 
accordance with the goals of the Master Plan under the National Strategy, achievable through 
collaborations among the local private sector, inhabitants and civil society. Assessing the city’s 
digital preparedness and strengthening the capacity of cities with potentials to enable them to 
advance into smart cities, also by instilling appropriate knowledge and understanding of digital 
technology. Designing townhall mechanisms for collective planning on technology adoption to 
ensure transparent and effective urban management. 

Sub-strategy 2.4 
Increasing efficiency of urban land use, taking into account urban 
planning that encompasses all aspects. Encouraging land readjustment process together with the 
development plan of the adjusted lands with public participation following the livable and 


sustainable city framework. Improving the landscape in line with urban culture and environment. 
Supporting a feasibility study on land and structural use to accommodate the Transit Oriented 
Development. Increasing green and public areas in the city as well as diminishing urban sprawls 
to improve residents’ quality of life. 

Strategy 3 
Building preparedness in infrastructure, logistics and digital technology to 
support key economic areas and cities: 

Sub-strategy 3.1 
Continuously and adequately developing infrastructure, logistics 
and digital systems with high standards and full coverage of the area/city to facilitate the expansion 
of economic activities and public needs. Developing transport and logistics infrastructure to ensure 
safe, convenient and effective transportation and transports of goods and raw materials. 
Developing telecommunication infrastructure which is modern, inclusive, and of high quality. 
Developing scientific, technology and innovation infrastructure to support research and 
development for commercialization. Promoting the adoption of digital technologies to create value 
add as well as encouraging entrepreneurs to carry out digital transformation in business operations. 
Developing the city’s infrastructure and facilities to accommodate tourism and related services. 

Sub-strategy 3.2 
Developing personnel, education, research, technology and 
innovation to achieve quality, adequacy, and adaptability to meet the needs of local target industry 
and services so as to continuously support the expansion of the industrial and service sectors, 
particularly personnel in creative economy, tourism, agriculture/bio-industry, and future 
industries, which require advanced technologies and innovations. Encouraging collaboration 
among educational institutions, research institutes, the public sector and the private sector in 
producing research and innovation-related personnel to address local issues, develop local 
capacity, and design/develop products with international-level quality to meet the demands of 
market. Boosting competitiveness of all levels of local enterprises and linking them with the supply 
chains of external businesses. Enhancing the capability of farmers, community entrepreneurs, 
SMEs and startups in order for them to become smart farmers and tech startups. Developing labor 
skills to cater to creative services. 

Sub-strategy 3.3 
Creating enabling factors for investment to promote local trade 
and investment based on fair competition and social responsibility. Forging the private sector’s 
role in developing advanced tech industries by facilitating its business operations through 
measures on clustering of industries and services. Offering incentives to attract investors and 
foreign experts to invest/reside in the development area. Easing access to funding and innovation 
in comprehensive business operations and investment with modern technologies. Reviewing and 
revising laws to facilitate investment, especially in the target industry with advanced technology 
and eco-friendly industries. Continuously publicizing relevant information to investors along with 
fostering understanding among local populations to ensure acceptance and support for 
development. 

Strategy 4 
Strengthening development area and urban management: 

Sub-strategy 4.1 
Strengthening the capacity of local actors at all levels to ensure 
effective development area and urban management. Supporting development area and city 
planning to ensure sustainability and livability according to the boundaries of ecological spatial 
plans. Applying data and indicators in assessing a city’s sustainability while formulating 
development strategies with participation of all local partners during every step. In this respect, 
sustainably livable areas and cities shall place importance on the efficient use of natural resources; 


reductions in all forms of waste, pollution and GHG emissions; extensive management of waste 
and wastewater with appropriate technology, safety, and preparedness against all forms of 
disasters. Pushing for key development areas and cities to develop investment plans in line with 
the development plan based on cross-sectoral participation, such as livable and sustainable cities 
and urban development charters, to ensure concrete implementation. These include an investment 
plan to revive a city’s economy in specific development area or high value economic zones and 
plan to invest in, and develop, a mass transit system to connect and provide convenience to all 
groups of the population. Promoting research and study on the tools and power of local 
governments in development areas along with urban management to ascertain their ability to cope 
with the challenges of the VUCA (volatility, uncertainty, complexity and ambiguity) of the world. 
Establishing an urban learning zone to incubate innovation in area development management and 
collective problem solving, which might lead to sandboxes to test new ideas such as the disclosure 
and sharing of data, the forging of local knowledge, understanding and awareness on health and 
hygiene, food production systems, and healthy consumption behaviors through a network of 
community volunteers, such as Village Health Volunteers (VHV), for preparation against 
epidemics and emerging diseases. 

Sub-strategy 4.2 
Enhancing local-level financial, fiscal and fund management 
capability. Revising regulations to allow local governments to have financial agility and ability to 
generate incomes and raise funds from local populations. Improving tax measures to support social 
enterprise activities on urban development and land use for public benefit, such as urban 
agriculture. Exploring the possibility of setting up funds for new initiatives, such as a fund for 
structural and environmental improvements for health benefits that prioritize the design and 
restoration of buildings and the environment for economic activities, housing, and disease 
prevention and control. Designing and experimenting with diverse incentive mechanisms for 
cultural preservation of key development areas and cities, including historical towns and historic 
building clusters, as well as the surrounding or co-existing communities. 

Sub-strategy 4.3 
Establishing a monitoring and evaluation system for area and 
urban development with a focus on a learning process to improve and develop creative innovations 
for local development. Funding the evaluation of area and urban development with a focus on 
targets, outcomes, and impacts, particularly for important projects in terms of budget size and 
spatial coverage. Encouraging public participation and awareness in the evaluation of area and 
urban development by allowing the public to make suggestions to ensure the accountability of 
local governments. 

 

 


Milestone 9: 
Thailand Has Less Intergenerational Poverty and Adequate, Appropriate 
Social Protection 

1. 
Past Development Situation 

Intergenerational transmission of poverty has long been a chronic and structural 
problem which is likely to intensify in the future. Even though the proportion of Thailand’s poor 
has continuously decreased, a significant number of people are still trapped in poverty, receiving 
no benefit from the country’s economic growth and passing poverty down to the next generation. 
According to the Thai People Map and Analytics Platform (TPMAP) in 2022, there were 597,248 
households that are prone to fall under intergenerational poverty in so-called 
“intergenerational poor households1”, accounting for 15 per cent of all households with children 
and young people. This number is likely to increase due to the impacts of the COVID-19 pandemic 
which has resulted in a prolonged economic slump, consequently narrowing the opportunities for 
the poor to escape the poverty trap. 

1 Intergenerational poor households are households with children and young people aged 0 to 18 with income or non-income deprivation in at 
least one of four areas, namely health (newborn weight of less than 2,500 grams, or children aged 0 to 12 not fully vaccinated); environment (lack 
of housing security or access to clean water); education (children lack pre-schooling, do not complete mandatory education, or do not continue in 
high school or equivalent, or household members who are not in employment or training, or lack literacy and numeracy); and financial security 
(household income lower than 38,000 baht/person/year or no savings). Analyzed data came from big data on lifelong human development 
(TPMAP). 

An analysis reveals that that most intergenerational poor households have no savings, 
low education levels and a high dependency ratio. The most important factor contributing to 
household intergenerational poverty is a lack of financial security due to a lack of savings (73.4 
per cent), followed by inadequate education (17.2 per cent) with children aged six to 14 have not 
completed the nine-year compulsory education. Many children drop out of the educational system 
because their families cannot afford the expenses. Meanwhile, almost 70 pre cent of leaders in 
these households have only primary education or less. In terms of demographics, the dependency 
ratio of children and the elderly to working age population is as high as 90 per cent and the 
proportion of household members aged six to 14 is as high as 23.7 per cent. Furthermore, most 
heads of the intergenerational poor households are agricultural workers (48.5 per cent), followed 
by elementary workers (28.8 per cent). More than 30 per cent of the intergenerational poor 
households are in the Northeastern region, followed by the Southern (25 per cent) and Northern 
Regions (18 per cent). 

Due to the lack of educational opportunities and necessary skills, children from 
intergenerational poor households can often enter into the labor market only as low-skilled 
or semi-skilled workers. The intergenerational transmission of poverty not only negatively 
impacts the future income level and quality of life of these young people but also threatens the 
country’s overall economic and social security, especially as Thailand becomes an ageing society 
and today’s children and teens, once they reach working age, will have to shoulder a heavier burden 
of caring for the elderly. Therefore, the eradication of intergenerational poverty by providing 
intergenerationally poor children with education and skills development to allow them to reach 
their full potentials as well as sustainably lifting their families out of poverty is critical to the 
country’s development during the implementation of the 13th National Economic and Social 
Development Plan. 

In addition, Thailand needs to develop adequate social protection systems for populations 
across different age groups in order to cope effectively with demographic and other changes. 


Currently, Thailand’s social protection systems suffer from gaps and inadequate levels of 
benefits for basic needs. Regarding social protection for children in early childhood, the provision 
of Child Support Grant suffers from exclusion errors as 30 per cent of eligible households have 
not received the benefits. Moreover, the 600-baht amount accounts for only 16 per cent of average 
expenses for children in this age group. A lack of access to childcare for children between 0 to two 
years old is a hurdle for many households as between the ages of 3 months and 2 years mothers 
are no longer entitled to maternity leaves whereas public early childhood development centers 
cannot accept children of this age. Meanwhile, private child care centers are few and expensive, 
so most parents need to send their children to live with grandparents in their hometown, depriving 
them of parental care and exposing them to a risk of delayed development. More than 22 per cent 
of children between the ages of 0 and four do not live with their parents. 

In the working age population a number of workers lack appropriate income security. In 
2021, there were almost 20 million informal workers, accounting for 52 per cent of all workers, 
who are not protected by Social Security System or the Civil Service Benefits and are lacking 
income security when facing sickness, incapacitation, or unemployment. Although informal-sector 
workers can opt into the voluntary retirement savings systems with government co-contributions 
as a way to ensure old-age income security, only around 35 per cent of informal-sector workers 
do. In addition, the enormous shift in the labor market towards non-standard forms of employment, 
particularly in the platform economy, has left several workers without protection under labor laws. 
As a result, these platform workers suffer from a lack of basic welfare and risk experiencing unfair 
treatment. 

Meanwhile, the elderly in this cohort also lack social welfare to ensure a good quality of 
life. In 2020, 8.3 per cent of the elderly population lived in poverty without incomes or other forms 
of social security benefit, except the government’s Old-Age Allowance of 600 to 1,000 baht for 
living expenses. In addition, there are a number of dependent senior citizens who do not receive 
appropriate care. As of January 2022, only 54.2 per cent of the dependent elderly can access long-
term healthcare services through the Universal Health Coverage program. Decent living conditions 
are also an important factor in the welfare of the elderly because unsafe living conditions can cause 
harm and lead to dependency. 

Apart from the adequacy and coverage of specific social protection for each age group, 
Thailand’s overall social protection still suffers from a lack of systemic governance as social 
protection programs are served by several agencies working incoherently without integration from 
policy to implementation level and in terms of database systems, resulting in inadequate benefit 
levels for some target groups. Moreover, an absence of monitoring and evaluation leads to budget 
losses in ineffective programs and negatively impacts fiscal sustainability. There is also a lack of 
emergency preparedness and response, resulting in delayed, ineffective, and inaccurate assistance. 

2.1 
Connections between Milestone 9 and the main targets and goals of the 13th National 
Economic and Social Development Plan and the National Strategy 

Milestone 9, whereby Thailand has less intergenerational poverty and adequate, 
appropriate social protection, aligns with two goals of the 13th Plan, namely: 1) Target 2: 
Developing human capital for the new global era by developing social security and protection 
to ensure Thai people’s security in life; and 2) Target 3: Creating a society of opportunities and 
fairness by giving vulnerable and marginalized groups opportunities in economic and social 
mobility. 


Milestone 9 is also consistent with two areas of the National Strategy, namely: 1) 
Developing and Strengthening Human Capital under the goal of creating an enabling 
environment for lifelong human development; and 2) Social Cohesion and Equity with the goals 
of creating fairness and reducing inequalities in all dimensions, as well as distributing economic 
and social hubs and providing opportunities for every sector to take part in national development 
at all levels. 

2.2 
Goals, Indicators, and Targets 

Target 1 
Intergenerational poor households have opportunities for upward socioeconomic 
mobility and can escape poverty sustainably. 

Indicator 1.1 
All households identified as intergenerationally poor in 2022 can escape the 
intergenerational poor household status by 2027. 

Indicator 1.2 
Adjusted net enrollment rate of children from intergenerational poor households 
is no less than 100 per cent at lower secondary level and 70 per cent for higher 
secondary level or equivalent. 

Indicator 1.3 
The number of children from intergenerational poor households who have become 
skilled workers or completed higher education or equivalent increases by no less 
than 50 per cent. 

Indicator 1.4 
The proportion of children in early childhood from intergenerational poor 
households who suffer from developmental delay decreases by 20 per cent. 

Target 2 
Thai people of all age groups have adequate social protection for their livelihood. 

Indicator 2.1 
The social protection composite index score is no less than 100. The social 
protection composite index includes three dimensions and the following 
indicators: 

1. 
Social protection for children 

(1) 
Access to early childhood care (0 to two years) increases by no less than 
50 per cent. 

2. 
Social protection for working age population 

(1) 
Workers insured for Social Security benefits account for no less than 60 
per cent of the total workforce. 

(2) 
The number of subscribers to the voluntary retirement saving system with 
government co-contributions increases by no less than 100 per cent. 

(3) 
Workers in all forms of employment are protected by labor laws. 

3. 
Social protection for the elderly 

(1) 
The proportion of the elderly poor decreases to less than 4 per cent. 

(2) 
The proportion of the dependent elderly who can access long-term 
healthcare under the Universal Health Coverage program increases to no 
less than 70 per cent. 


3. Strategy Map 

 

 

 


4. 
Development Strategies 

Strategy 1 
Eradicating intergenerational poor households through targeted solutions: 

Sub-strategy 1.1 
Providing aid and building the capacity of intergenerational poor 
households to ensure suitable living conditions for child development. Providing specific social 
protections for those with limited capacity. Putting an emphasis on building job opportunities with 
higher productivity and income through labor skill development. Identifying suitable jobs for the 
households’ capabilities, local contexts, and the country's development direction. Supporting 
access to finance and necessary resources to make a living, enhancing financial knowledge and 
skills, together with providing mentors to advise, inspire and assist throughout the process. 

Sub-strategy 1.2 
Developing local-level mechanisms to address intergenerational 
transmission of poverty with a focus on enhancing the capacity and increasing the role of regional 
and local agencies in addressing intergenerational poverty. Integrating cross-sectoral collaboration 
to drive development strategies while using databases to identify intergenerational poor 
households, examine their needs, create operational guidelines to resolve their problems, and 
ensure close monitoring and evaluation in order to resolve intergenerational transmission of 
poverty sustainably. 

Strategy 2 
Creating equitable opportunities for children from intergenerational poor 
households: 

Sub-strategy 2.1 
Supporting intergenerational poor households in providing 
quality care to children from gestation to early childhood. Increasing the efficiency of Child 
Support Grant system by addressing exclusion errors, adopting conditional disbursement processes 
that triggers desired outcomes, and revising eligibility criteria and benefits to align with economic 
and social conditions. 

Sub-strategy 2.2 
Boosting opportunities for quality education and professional 
skills development. Subsidizing and providing necessary resources to children from 
intergenerational poor households to ease the burden of educational expenses in and outside 
schools and in both physical and virtual classrooms. Developing a monitoring and support system 
to help poor children return to education or professional skills development as appropriate. 

Strategy 3 
Enhancing social protection for people of all age groups: 

Sub-strategy 3.1 
Enhancing social protection to promote child development. 
Increasing access to and urgently improve the quality and standard of early childhood development 
centers (child development centers) nationwide. Increasing access to quality child care centers for 
children aged 0 to two years old, together with supporting local administrative organizations with 
readiness to expand the services of early childhood development centers to include children aged 
0 to two. Promoting the establishment of quality child care centers in communities, workplaces 
and government agencies in order to allow parents to return to the labor market while living with 
their children. 

Sub-strategy 3.2 
Enhancing social protection to ensure security for working age 
population. Uplifting the social security system to respond to the needs of informal workers, 
specifically improving procedures for contribution payments and benefits to increase variety and 
flexibility. Encouraging retirement savings by incentivizing informal workers to join the voluntary 
saving system. Revising the conditions and benefits of the retirement saving system to allow 
participants to save and receive increased benefits. Developing financial data services to assist 


participants in planning their retirement savings efficiently. Revising and developing laws to 
enhance the labor welfare protection system by including new forms of employments, such as 
temporary workers and platform workers, and ensuring equal or similar protection as traditional 
employees. 

Sub-strategy 3.3 
Enhancing social protection to improve the quality of life for the 
elderly. Particularly supporting alternative welfare systems provided by local administrative 
organizations and other development partners. Integrating data on welfare and financial support 
for the elderly to avoid duplication and facilitate the provision of targeted assistance to the elderly 
poor. Improving access to long-term healthcare for the dependent elderly by enhancing the 
capacity of the Universal Health Coverage program. Promoting the role of local administrative 
organizations, private facilities, independent caregivers and trained/qualified family members. 
Encouraging the elderly to reside in their homes by improving living conditions, especially for the 
elderly poor, as well as ensuring adequate housing options, including housings for those who need 
special care and housings specially designed for the elderly. 

Strategy 4 
Building an efficient social protection system: 

Sub-strategy 4.1 
Integrating the social protection system starting from 
collaboratively setting goals of social security provision, establishing clear structures and roles of 
relevant agencies at the national, regional and local levels and linking databases of all agencies to 
enable collaboration so as to reduce duplications between projects and measures. Improving the 
adequacy of benefits. Reducing exclusion errors of vulnerable groups; namely, people with 
disabilities, homeless people, people with multiple vulnerabilities and people facing difficulties. 

Sub-strategy 4.2 
Improving methods in providing social protection to ensure that 
people of all groups receive appropriate welfare based on fiscal sustainability. Focusing on a 
careful evaluation of every project/measure to improve efficiency and effectiveness of social 
protection programs. Terminating or reducing budgets of projects/measures with no or low impacts 
to truly align budgeting with the country's development goals. Promoting social protection 
financed by co-payments, especially for groups with capacities. Supporting the role of local 
administrative organizations in providing welfare to local populations. Attracting more 
participation in the tax systems. 

Sub-strategy 4.3 
Developing an emergency preparedness and response. 
Identifying levels, approaches and channels for monetary and non-monetary relief, as well as 
preparing database of target groups, initial budget sources, and the role of relevant national, 
regional and local agencies in providing support to those affected by socio-economic crises and 
natural disaster to ensure timely and effective assistance. 

Strategy 5 Developing an integrated database to reduce intergenerational transmission of 
poverty and provide social protection: 

Sub-strategy 5.1 
Developing and updating individuals’ database that covers 
population from intergenerational poor households. Linking crucial data for the reduction of 
intergenerational poverty and the integration of social protection plans. Establishing the country’s 
panel database with annual data collection and updates. 

Sub-strategy 5.2 
Promoting the utilization of databases in designing policies and 
measures as well as in monitoring and evaluation to help provide the targeted intergenerational 


poor with efficient social welfare measures. Sharing data across sectors, including the public 
sector, the private sector, civil society and academia, to ensure coherent implementation. 

 

 


Milestone No. 10 Thailand is a Circular Economy and Low Carbon Society 

1. Past Development Situation 

 Over the past years Thailand’s economic expansion relied heavily on the use of raw 
materials and intermediate goods, while efficiency in the use of natural resources to generate 
products and services remained low. According to 2019 data, the proportion of intermediate 
consumption to GDP is at 61.85 per cent — higher than that of Japan and South Korea at 46.38 
per cent (2016) and 58.65 per cent (2018), respectively. A report of the Economic and Social 
Commission for Asia and the Pacific (ESCAP) indicated that Thailand’s domestic material 
consumption in 2016 was 2.06 kilogram per U.S. dollars — higher than Asia Pacific and OECD 
averages. This demonstrates low efficiency in the use of fundamental resources (biomass, metal 
ores, non-metals, and fossil fuels) for economic development, wasteful usage, and lower-than-
anticipated value-added generation. 

 The overexploitations of natural resources beyond the ecosystem’s capacity, together 
with limitations in management, lead to the degradation of natural resources and 
intensifying environmental problems. As Thailand’s economic expansion, which mostly relies 
on raw materials and intermediate goods while having low resource efficiency, puts heavy 
demands on natural resources beyond the ecosystem’s capacity, natural resources degradation 
becomes inescapable. Meanwhile, waste and pollution problems worsen. Thailand faces the 
problems of soil degradation, threats against biodiversity, destruction of the coastal ecosystem, 
and unmet needs of water resources. Although slightly increased, forest coverage is still lower than 
the 12th NESDP’s target of 40 per cent. 

 Problems regarding waste and pollution are: 

 1) Garbage: Garbage volume grew by 2 per cent per year during the past 10 years (2010-
2019). Municipal solid waste, accounting for 22 per cent, or 6.4 million tons, in 2019 has not been 
properly managed and become a serious problem affecting water quality, river systems and marine 
animals. Most of the garbage in the ocean is plastic, which has increased by 21,700 to 32,600 tons 
per year, affecting marine and coastal ecosystems. Community and industrial waste amounted to 
2.041 million tons in 2019 and was likely to increase, especially used electrical and electronics 
appliances which are not comprehensively managed. 

 2) Air pollution: PM 2.5 levels regularly exceed acceptable standards every year, 
especially in industrial areas and big cities with large populations and chronic traffic congestions. 

 3) Water pollution: During 2020, 1.7 million cubic meters of community wastewater per 
day, accounting for 18 per cent of all community wastewater, was not properly treated. There is 
also the problem of microplastic contamination. Research data showed that 90 per cent of 
crustaceans and corals under study had microplastic accumulations in their tissues. 

 GHG emission continues to increase despite a pledge for zero emissions by 2050 of 173 
countries (as of December 2020). The Third Biennial Update Report (2016) showed that Thailand 
released 354.36 million tons of carbon dioxide equivalent (CO2eq) from various activities — a 
slight increase from the 2013 volume of 342.11 million tons CO2eq. The energy and transport 
sector released the highest volume of carbon dioxide at 253.89 million tons CO2eq (71.65 per 
cent), followed by the agricultural sector (52.16 million tons CO2eq), the industrial processes and 
product use (31.53 million tons CO2eq), and waste (16.77 million tons CO2eq). Considering the 


volume of reabsorbed GHGs by forestry and land use (91.13 million tons CO2eq), the net GHG 
emission volume was 263.22 million tons CO2eq. 

 Challenges facing milestone implementation: A decline in natural resources, 
intensifying environmental problems and growing pollution as well as the increasing release of 
GHGs are key challenges to the achievement of the sustainable development goals (SDGs), which 
have become Thailand’s and international priority. The SDGs are also key determinants for the 
achievement of the 20-years National Strategy’s “Security, Prosperity, and Sustainability” goal 
and consistent with the government’s focus on the BCG economy for sustainable development, 
the particulate pollution management plan, the plastic waste management roadmap (2018-2030) 
and the action plan on plastic waste management Phase 1 (2018- 2022), as well as the pledge to 
reduce GHG emissions according to the Paris Agreement from business-as-usual at least by 20 to 
25 per cent by 2030. In addition, the country is in the process of developing Thailand’s Long-Term 
Low Greenhouse Gas Emission Development Strategy: LT-LEDS (Revised Version) aiming 
towards zero emissions. It is anticipated that Thailand’s GHG emissions will peak between 2030 
and 2040. However, the BCG economic model still needs operationalization with cross-sectoral 
integration at all levels of the plan, while a deeper cut in GHG emissions in line with global trend 
remains a challenge and needs concrete guidelines and implementation consistent with 
development goals in other areas. 

2. Development Goals 

 2.1 Connections between Milestone 10 and the main targets and goals of the 13th 
National Economic and Social Development Plan and the National Strategy 

Milestone 10, whereby Thailand is a circular economy and low-carbon society, is 
consistent with four targets of the 13th Plan, namely: 1) Target 1: Restructuring the 
manufacturing and service sectors towards an innovation-based economy by enhancing 
competitiveness through knowledge, creativity and innovation; 2) Target 3: Creating a society 
of opportunities and fairness by creating opportunities and spreading income to communities; 3) 
Target 4: Ensuring the transition of production and consumption towards sustainability 
through efficient use of natural resources in manufacturing and consumption and within ecological 
limits; and 4) Target 5: Enhancing Thailand’s capability to cope with changes and risks under 
the new global context, in particular climate change. 

Milestone 10 also responds to the following three areas of the National Strategy (2018-
2037): 

1) Security under the goal of maintaining stability and benefits of marine and terrestrial natural 
resources and the environment for sustainable richness and benefits; 

2) Competitiveness enhancement in next-generation industry and services with the goal of 
driving the country’s development with innovation and technology of the future, together with 
building enabling ecosystems and supporting the sustainable development of industries and 
services; and 

3) Eco-Friendly Development and Growth by reducing GHG emissions, building a low-carbon 
society, supporting investments in eco-friendly infrastructure projects, developing and applying 
innovation and technology to reduce pollution and environmental impacts. 

 


 2.2 Goals, Indicators, and Targets 

Target 1 To increase values through the circular economy and efficient use of resources. 

Indicator 1.1 GDP from the circular economy increases and contributes no less than 1 per cent of 
economic growth by 2027. 

Indicator 1.2 Domestic material consumption decreases by no less than 25 per cent by 2027. 

Indicator 1.3 Material circularity indicators for target products (plastic, construction materials, 
agriculture-food) increase by no less than 10 per cent by 2027. 

Target 2 To sustainably conserve, rehabilitate and utilize natural resources. 

Indicator 2.1 Thailand’s Environmental Performance Index ranks higher — among Southeast 
Asia’s top 3 countries with a score of 55 or higher by 2027. 

Indicator 2.2 Forest coverage increases by 33 per cent for natural forests and 12 per cent for forest 
plantations for economic values by 2027. 

Target 3 To establish a low-carbon sustainable society. 

Indicator 3.1 The proportion of renewable energy in the final energy consumption increases by 
no less than 24 per cent by 2027. 


Indicator 3.2 Waste reuse increases and waste recycling increases to no less than 40 per cent of 
recyclable waste by 2027. 

Indicator 3.3 Waste per capita in 2027 falls by 10 per cent of the volume in 2017. 


3. Strategy Map 

 

 

 

 

 


 

4. Development Strategies 

 

Strategy 1 Developing industries and services based on the circular economy and a low-
carbon society: 

 Sub-strategy 1.1 Enhancing the capacity of industrial and service sectors by developing 
products, services and markets with value add. Developing tools and mechanisms as well as 
research and knowledge to increase efficiency in the circular use of materials so as to boost 
productivity and add value to the circular economy. 


 Sub-strategy 1.2 Increasing efficiency in product manufacturing and services in line with 
the circular economy and a low-carbon society. Implementing the Extended Producer 
Responsibility policy framework. Encouraging private sector investments to raise the efficiency 
of manufacturing processes and services with a specific aim to reduce, reuse, recycle, and 
minimize waste in manufacturing and service processes. Stimulating the use of green energy. 
Promoting support mechanisms and incentives in adjusting production methods to enable lower 
carbon emissions. 

 Sub-strategy 1.3 Fostering connections with other economic sectors, including the 
agriculture, industry and tourism sectors, by building linkages of production systems from 
upstream production to downstream manufacturing and consumption in line with the circular 
economy. 

 Sub-strategy 1.4 Developing a standard certification system for products and services. 
Formulating standards for production and service processes, products and services certification 
systems, and guidelines for the implementation of the circular economy. 

 Sub-strategy 1.5 Adopting tools and mechanisms in the financial and equity markets to 
ensure eco-friendly growth. Constructing collaborative mechanisms between the government and 
private sector. Promoting green financial measures and investments as well as sustainability 
reporting standards, sustainability accounting standards, as well as investments in eco-friendly 
economic activities. 

 

Strategy 2 Generating net incomes for communities, local entities and farmers based on the 
circular economy and a low-carbon society: 

 Sub-strategy 2.1 Raising community incomes through a zero-waste approach from both 
garbage and agricultural materials. Encouraging communities to use garbage and agricultural 
residues to create new products with added value while helping them boost incomes and cut 
expenses. Instilling collaborations between local communities and businesses in using leftovers 
from production processes to develop products for use in the community. 

 Sub-strategy 2.2 Promoting community income generation based on biological and 
cultural diversity. Encouraging income generation from natural resources and cultural 
conservation. Boosting the capacity of local populations by equipping them with ecotourism 
knowledge and awareness of local identity and cultural heritage. Developing environmental 
management systems at tourist destinations. 


 Sub-strategy 2.3 Promoting and developing carbon market systems to generate incomes 
from carbon storage in the forestry sector. Researching and developing knowledge and databases 
for carbon trade, including data on measurements of carbon emissions from manufacturing and 
services, evaluation of carbon storage capacity in the forestry sector, and other carbon storage 
activities. Establishing a certification system for carbon emissions and storage in line with 
international standards. Facilitating carbon market trade for both emitters and capturers. 

 Sub-strategy 2.4 Raising the efficiency of community-level systematic garbage 
management throughout the chain. Encouraging community-level garbage reduction and sorting 
systems as well as promoting pre-disposal garbage sorting practice for recycling, particularly as 
materials for community and industrial production. Supporting conversions of municipal waste 
and leftovers from production processes into energy. Pushing for model communities with the 
capability for generating income from converting sorted garbage into products with locally 
appropriate innovation and technology. 

 Sub-strategy 2.5 Supporting the establishment of learning communities based on the 
circular economy. Encouraging the setting up of model communities based on the circular 
economy that corresponds with local lifestyles and knowledge, as well as transferring knowledge 
and lessons learned to other communities to sustainably improve their quality of life and expand 
community networks. 

 Sub-strategy 2.6 Formulating systems and mechanisms to encourage forest plantations to 
boost communities’ economy. Building mechanisms to inspire the planting of new forests in 
degraded or abandoned areas. Implementing the Tree Bank initiative. Developing a tracing system 
for timber production, processing, and trade throughout the production chain. Supporting research 
and development in viable tree varieties and innovation to create value add from timber. 
Incentivizing the planting of trees with economic value. 

 

Strategy 3 Rehabilitating natural resources and increasing resource efficiency based on the 
Sufficiency Economy Philosophy: 

 Sub-strategy 3.1 Building sufficient natural resource bases for efficient production and 
utilization. Exploiting natural resources with mindfulness of the ecological limits and self-healing 
capacity. Forging a balance between conservation and sustainable utilization and equitable benefits 
sharing. Conducting a value evaluation of natural resources to increase the efficiency of natural 
resources management. 

 Sub-strategy 3.2 Using surpluses from natural resources for diverse benefits without 
leftovers and waste from industry, agriculture and food waste. Analyzing material flows to 
efficiently manage leftovers from manufacturing and consumption and developing a circular 
system to make use of industrial leftovers and agricultural residues. Reducing pre-market losses 
and food waste. Developing a platform to connect circular economy businesses to knowledge and 
innovation, as well as revising regulations to allow recovering valuable materials from industrial 
waste. 

 Sub-strategy 3.3 Managing economic activities within the capacity of natural resources in 
the area. Ensuring efficient and sustainable resources management. Resolving conflicts related to 
natural resources and the environment. Defining appropriate land use within the capacity of natural 
resources. Developing and enhancing land management standard. Establishing an environmental 


management system in the area, as well as fostering a balance between conservation and 
sustainable utilization. 

 

Strategy 4 Developing technology, innovation and mechanisms to support the circular 
economy and low carbon society: 

 Sub-strategy 4.1 Promoting technological research and development of platforms to 
support businesses in the circular economy and a low-carbon society. Adopting advanced 
technologies and innovations, creativity and local knowledge to increase resource efficiency and 
reduce waste from production processes. Encouraging the development of data management 
platforms as well as platforms to strengthen a capacity for the transition towards the circular 
economy and a low-carbon society. Integrating collaborative networks to develop technology in 
ecological designs, waste management, business development and exchanges of surpluses between 
businesses and industries. 

 Sub-strategy 4.2 Developing technologies and innovations for business models and a 
complete collaborative mechanism for all relevant parties. Adopting private-public participation 
principles to support businesses to transition to circular economy business models. Creating new 
businesses with products and services designed to be long-lasting and use recyclable materials, 
and for-hire or pay-as-you-go business models to promote resource sharing. 

 Sub-strategy 4.3 Advancing technology and innovation to support the reduction and 
circular use of resources and upcycle waste. Encouraging technology and innovation in mono-
material packaging, second use, and upcycling for more extensive production and use. 

 Sub-strategy 4.4 Promoting carbon capture, utilization and storage technology. Capturing 
carbon dioxide from the energy and industrial sectors. Arranging for funding for research and 
development, as well as boosting financial and fiscal incentives to attract private sector 
investments. Developing infrastructure for carbon storage and transport. 

 Sub-strategy 4.5 Cultivating collaborations with other countries for technology transfers. 
Setting up an international collaboration network to promote the sharing, exchange and 
development of knowledge on policies, science, technologies, innovations, research and 
applications. 

 Sub-strategy 4.6 Developing databases/knowledge/standards/laws/measures to support 
and incentivize. Revising laws to facilitate the circular economy and reduction of GHG emissions 
in all sectors. Implementing financial and fiscal measures to raise the standards of manufacturing 
processes to reduce pollution and increase resource efficiency. Developing database systems, 
knowledge and guidelines on the circular economy and a low-carbon society in line with 
international standards. Strengthening the capacity of agencies and personnel at the national, local, 
and community-levels in resource efficiency and pollution reduction. Promoting transfers of eco-
friendly technologies and innovations with low carbon emissions. 

 

Strategy 5 Encouraging a shift in economic behaviors and lifestyles towards sustainable ways 
of living: 

 Sub-strategy 5.1 Raising social awareness. Advocating for living in harmony with nature. 
Promoting awareness, conscience, and attitudes across all sectors towards the importance and 


comprehensive realization of the circular economy and a low-carbon society. Nurturing eco-
friendly consumer characteristics and behaviors. 

 Sub-strategy 5.2 Cultivating consumers’ motivation and life attitudes for a shift towards 
sustainable consumption. Developing mechanism and tools — economic and otherwise — to 
incentivize and encourage consumers to change their behaviors to eco-friendly lifestyles based on 
accurate, reliable and transparent information. Supporting practices leading to the procurement of 
eco-friendly products and services. Encouraging the recycling of household waste and discarded 
packaging materials. Boosting product labeling, such as green labels, carbon footprint labels, and 
energy labels to facilitate consumers’ decision making. 

 Sub-strategy 5.3 Promoting the sharing of economy platforms and secondhand markets. 
Determining rules, regulations and laws to promote and regulate sharing economy businesses. 
Developing a collaborative network between manufacturers and consumers. Building a platform 
to connect service users and service providers for the purpose of trade and exchange of goods and 
products to ensure circularity and resource efficiency. 

 Sub-strategy 5.4 Advocating for alternative energy and energy saving innovation for 
households. Developing basic infrastructure and data systems for the management, production and 
use of alternative energy. Supporting research and development of efficient technologies in 
alternative energy. Promoting affordable energy-saving innovations. Raising awareness and 
disseminating information to encourage the public to choose technologies with efficient energy 
consumption and long-term cost reductions. 

 Sub-strategy 5.5 Promoting eco-friendly transportation. Promoting the use of mass transit 
systems. Developing an eco-friendly public transport networks with low carbon emissions and 
countrywide coverage. Supporting the manufacturing and use of efficient clean-energy vehicles. 

 Sub-strategy 5.6 Stimulating the use of local wisdom and culture in line with circular 
economy approaches. Promoting approaches to community use of limited resources with 
maximum efficiency. Supporting the use of local wisdom in creating products and services with 
innovation and creativity for self-reliance. Reviving, developing, and accommodating knowledge 
transfers to raise public awareness and understanding of the values and benefits of protecting local 
wisdom and culture. 

 

 


Milestone 11: Thailand Can Mitigate Risks and Impacts of Natural Disaster and Climate 
Change 

1. Past Development Situation 

 Population growth, expansion of human habitation and physical infrastructure 
development have inevitably destroyed the environmental balance, thus bringing about 
climate change and aggravating natural disaster around the world. Thailand has frequently 
experienced natural disasters in many forms; namely, tropical cyclones, thunderstorms, storm 
surges, landslides, floods, droughts, forest fires and haze pollution, earthquakes and tsunamis. In 
the Global Climate Risk Index 2020, Thailand was ranked 8th among countries for its high degree 
of vulnerability to climate change impacts. Over the past 20 years, the country suffered 147 
disasters, particularly the 2004 tsunami on the Andaman coast, the great flood of 2011, and a 
magnitude 6.3 earthquake in Chiang Rai Province in 2014. Meanwhile, the World Risk Report 
2020 ranked Thailand 90th out of 181 countries with Level-3 overall risks (medium level) out of 
five levels. Thailand was found to have a high level of exposure, a medium level of vulnerability 
due to a low adaptive capacity, and a medium level of response preparedness despite a low level 
of susceptibility. 

 Most natural disasters in Thailand are predictable seasonal recurrences. However, 
climate change, which is a consequence of a rise in global temperatures due to higher greenhouse 
gas emissions, tends to amplify the severity and frequency of Thailand’s natural disasters. Besides, 
there have occurred unprecedented and unpredictable disasters such as earthquakes and tsunamis, 
resulting in significant damages and massive losses of lives, properties and natural resources. 

 The most devastating natural disaster in Thailand are floods. The great flood of 2011 
caused 1.4 trillion baht in total losses and damages (World Bank report), affecting 65 provinces, 
more than 13 million households in Bangkok and causing 813 deaths. Meanwhile, Thailand 
continues to suffer from a regular, chronic problem of flooding. In 2017, accumulated rainfall was 
the highest in 67 years, costing the country 1,050.3 million baht in damages and affecting 3.6 
million people. Besides, Thailand suffers from continuous and intensifying droughts. In 2019, 
damages from droughts amounted to 797.7 million baht with 18.7 million people affected – a more 
than tenfold increase from 73.5 million baht and 0.06 million people in 2017. The agricultural 
sector suffers the most impacts from floods and droughts as the sector accounts for more than 70 
per cent of the country’s total water usage. Agricultural areas are increasingly affected by floods 
and droughts despite a decrease in total agricultural areas. As regards agricultural household 
incomes, which are 40 per cent below the poverty line, the repercussions of floods and droughts 
on the agricultural sector inescapably worsen inequality. 

 In addition, other natural disasters that cause damage to lives and properties are 
storms, including thunderstorms, tropical cyclones, typhoons and depressions, which may 
strengthen into floods and storm surges. According to the data of the Department of Disaster 
Prevention and Mitigation, storms caused more than 130 million baht in damages and almost 900 
deaths in 2019. Landslides, which occurred simultaneously with or after flash floods following 
rainstorms, became more frequent and severe due to human actions such as deforestation, farming 
on slope areas, and soil erosion. Finally, earthquakes and tsunamis, although less frequent, can 
induce extensive damages to lives and properties. The 2004 tsunami devastated six provinces and 
took 5,395 lives, while 8,457 people were injured and more than 2,187 went missing. Damages to 
the tourism industry along the Andaman coast cost 30 billion baht. Although Thailand is not 


located on a major fault, tremors can be felt five to six times every year from earthquakes in 
Myanmar, Laos, and Indonesia, as well as minor quakes along minor faults in the Western and 
Northern Regions of the country. In 2014, a magnitude 6.3 earthquake, the biggest on record, hit 
the northern part of the country with the epicenter at the Phayao fault in Pan district of Chiang Rai 
province. 

 Disaster management and prevention: Despite having a systematic framework to 
prevent and manage disasters before, during and after the events, there are still obstacles and 
challenges in many aspects facing disaster responses and management of government agencies, 
especially limited capacity to cope with high-intensity natural disasters. Whereas most of 
Thailand’s natural disasters are predictable, government agencies focus on passive measures, such 
as providing assistance, relief and rehabilitation. Government budget allocation does not pay 
sufficient attention to proactive measures, such as preparedness, prevention and mitigation, 
because the quantitative outcomes of proactive measures are relatively difficult to measure. 

 As for climate change preparedness, Thailand is highly vulnerable to threats from 
natural disasters and climate change while having limited capability to cope with disasters and 
their risks. While some sectors are becoming more aware, however, the implementation of 
necessary measures are still slow. Hence, there is an urgent need for Thailand to reduce its 
exposure and increase its capability in coping with risks and adapting to natural disasters and 
climate change. This is also one of the key development issues in the 13th Plan under the goal of 
mitigating and preventing the impacts of natural disasters and climate change on the country’s 
economy, society, environment and security, particularly in an environment where climate change 
and natural disasters have the tendency to escalate. 

 Additional concerns include the fact that key economic players attach importance to 
collaborative efforts to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and mitigate global warming and also use 
these as a condition for international trade and investment. Thailand is becoming an aging society 
and fiscal constraints drive Thai society towards greater vulnerability to the impacts of natural 
disasters and climate change. 

2. Development Goals 

 2.1 Connections between Milestone 11 and the main targets and goals of the 13th 
National Economic and Social Development Plan and the National Strategy 

 Milestone 11, whereby Thailand can mitigate risks and impacts from natural disasters and 
climate change, is aligned with two targets of the 13th Plan, namely: 1) Target 4: Ensuring the 
transition of production and consumption towards sustainability, and 2) Target 5: Enhancing 
Thailand’s capability to cope with changes and risks under the new global context. 

 Milestone 11 is also consistent with the following three areas of the National Strategy: 

 1) Security under the goals: a) The country is secure in every dimension at all levels 
through managing the country's environment for security, safety and peace at all levels; and b) 
Military units, security service agencies, the public, private and civil sectors are equipped with the 
capacity to be prepared for the prevention and management of security-related issues. 

 2) Competitiveness enhancement under the goal: Thailand becomes a developed country 
with stable and sustainable economic growth in the aspect of “National security industry,” which 
aims to promote the development of an industry related to disaster management; for instance, a 
warning system, responsive disaster preparation, and assistance before and after disasters. 


 3) Eco-Friendly Development and Growth under the goals: To ensure balanced 
utilization and economic growth of the natural resource and environmental base by balancing 
development with ecosystem capacity, which is achievable by forging climate-friendly sustainable 
growth with a focus on reducing greenhouse gas emissions and building a low-carbon society; 
improving the disaster management system and building coping and adaptive capacities among 
the population to minimize losses and damages from disasters and climate change impacts; 
promoting investment in climate-friendly infrastructure projects; handling all forms of water-
related disasters through a water management system for crisis conditions in order to effectively 
control and reduce losses and risks from water-related disasters in accordance with scientific 
principles, as well as enable comprehensive and timely collaboration on disaster management 
within the regions. 

 2.2 Goals, Indicators, and Targets 

Target 1 here is a decrease in damages and impacts of natural disasters and climate change. 

Indicator 1.1 The number of disaster mortality, missing, and directly affected 
decreases in comparison with the 12th NESDP’s average in each disaster category. 

Indicator 1.2 Direct disaster economic losses on Gross Domestic Product (GDP) 
(including damages to infrastructure and disruptions of essential basic services) decrease in 
comparison with the 12th NESDP’s average. 

Indicator 1.3 Damages from natural disasters in terms of area and value decrease in 
comparison with the 12th NESDP’s average. 

Target 2 There is a decrease in risks from natural disasters and climate change. 

Indicator 2.1 There are risk maps showing areas at risk of natural disasters and 
climate change, including key areas at the local or provincial levels, which are connected to key 
economic, social and environmental databases. 

Indicator 2.2 There are area-based risk prevention plans for natural disasters and 
climate change, especially for key areas. 

Indicator 2.3 There is an effective early warning system (i.e., having comprehensive 
coverage of key disasters, the linkage between local, national and international level, precision, 
timeliness, and effective access to vulnerable groups). 

Target 3 Thai society is immune to natural disasters and climate change. 

Indicator 3.1 The number of communities, local governments, volunteers and 
partners with the capability to fundamentally cope with risks from natural disasters and climate 
change increases to 80 per cent by 2027. Moreover, there are trainings on the prevention and 
mitigation of natural disasters and climate change nationwide. 

Indicator 3.2 There are achievements in building local awareness and participation in 
transferring information from affected areas to the national disaster warning center. 

Indicator 3.3 Local administrative organizations are equipped with knowledge and 
natural disaster and climate change management plans. 

Indicator 3.4 Thai people can access and benefit from the agricultural crop insurance 
system in the case of natural disasters. 


Indicator 3.5 There are funds for the prevention and mitigation of impacts from 
natural disasters and climate change as well as reinsurance and research. 


3. Strategy Map 

 

 

 


4. Development Strategies 

Strategy 1 Preventing and mitigating the impacts of natural disasters and climate change 
in key areas2: 

2 Key areas refer to urban areas and structures, and zones with significant economic or historical values. 

Sub-strategy 1.1 Promoting the adoption of disaster preventive measures in key 
areas, such as urban planning, systematic land-use allocation, as well as setting up disaster safety 
zones. Revising construction standards and criteria to include disaster resilience structures and 
systems. Determining methods and guidelines for using low-lying areas for water retention, and 
setting up drainage systems according to the water plans and developing structures with climate-
appropriate architecture. 

Sub-strategy 1.2 Identifying and classifying key affected areas for each type of 
disasters. Integrating relevant data and risk maps for each type of disasters in order to formulate 
prevention and solution plans. Forging collaborations among locals, communities and relevant 
agencies. Integrating budget allocations, as well as clearly designating agencies responsible for 
plan implementation. 

Sub-strategy 1.3 Reviewing budget allocations by focusing on risk reduction and 
preventive measures rather than emergency responses and rehabilitation measures. Conducting 
comparative cost and benefit analyses of risk reduction and preventive measures to inform budget 
allocations. Allocating budgets by prioritizing key areas affected by natural disasters and climate 
change. 

Sub-strategy 1.4 Applying National Catastrophe Models for each type of natural 
disaster and climate change to improve solution mechanisms with designated responsible agencies 
in key affected areas in order to evaluate the effectiveness of preventive measures and 
consequently formulate appropriate action plans. 

Strategy 2 Developing and enhancing people and community’s capacity to cope with 
natural disasters and climate change: 

Sub-strategy 2.1 Enhancing knowledge, understanding and awareness of risks as 
well as preparedness for the impacts of natural disasters and climate change. Incorporating 
knowledge on disasters and climate change management into curricula at all educational levels. 
Establishing learning centers. Encouraging access to warning centers and utilizing early warning 
data systems efficiently. 

Sub-strategy 2.2 Promoting participation in preparedness for responses and 
adaptations to natural disasters and climate change. 

Sub-strategy 2.3 Enhancing the capacity of people, communities and local 
administrative organizations in handling natural disasters and climate change, especially 
vulnerable groups. Encouraging the setting up of networks among local administrative 
organizations, communities and civil society to ensure self-prevention and management of the 
impacts from natural disasters and climate change. 

Sub-strategy 2.4 Supporting non-structural measures to manage natural disasters 
and climate change, such as revising and consolidating laws related to natural disaster 
management. Promoting incentive measures for preparedness against natural disasters and climate 


change. Establishing insurance systems and funds as well as formulating business continuity plans 
to prevent and mitigate the impacts of natural disasters and climate change. 

 Strategy 3 Applying science and technology to manage risks from natural disasters and 
climate change: 

Sub-strategy 3.1 Developing and strengthening personnel and researchers as well 
as supporting research in the field of natural disaster and climate change to be systematic, 
continuous, comprehensive and applicable for local and national contexts. 

Sub-strategy 3.2 Enhancing the efficiency of early warning systems for accuracy 
and coverage of unprecedented disasters. Developing local-level warning systems that are 
connected to the national disaster warning center, focusing on upgrading equipment and 
technology to support the current warning system and connect it with other countries. Adopting 
Information and Communication Technology (ICT) in sending notifications to the public to ensure 
efficiency, timeliness, and better access to vulnerable groups. 

Sub-strategy 3.3 Setting up data systems to develop National Catastrophe Models 
for risk and impact assessments that cover each type of natural disaster and climate change in key 
areas. 

Sub-strategy 3.4 Encouraging the use of technology based on local wisdom in 
managing natural disasters and climate change. 

Strategy 4 Conserving and rehabilitating natural resources and ecosystems to prevent and 
mitigate the impacts of natural disasters and climate change: 

Sub-strategy 4.1 Raising awareness and building motivation for all sectors to 
conserve land and marine natural resources. 

Sub-strategy 4.2 Enhancing the roles of people, communities and the private sector 
in natural resources conservation and rehabilitation to prevent and mitigate the impacts of natural 
disasters and climate change. Increasing carbon sequestration and storage capacity, particularly 
through watershed forests, mangrove forests, natural water sources and wetlands. 

Sub-strategy 4.3 Supporting nature-based solutions to sustainably address natural 
disasters and climate change. For example, rehabilitating wetlands for water retention and filtering 
sediments to prevent floods; mitigating droughts by rehabilitating watershed forests, building 
small local-level water retention systems, and improving land use; and preventing coastal erosion 
by reviving original coastal ecosystems as natural defenses. 

Strategy 5 Promoting international collaboration to manage and mitigate risks from 
natural disasters and climate change: 

Sub-strategy 5.1 Developing international collaborative mechanisms for natural 
disaster and climate change management and transboundary environmental impact issues, such 
as water management in the Mekong River basin, haze pollution from forest fires both at the 
bilateral and multilateral levels through signing memoranda of understanding. Moreover, building 
technical cooperation on disaster risk reduction with neighboring countries, and collaboratively 
developing technologies and innovations. 


Sub-strategy 5.2 Sharing experiences and knowledge on international obligations 
related to natural disasters and climate change. Applying knowledge managements and good 
practices from other countries to Thailand’s social and cultural contexts. 

 

 


Milestone 12: Thailand Has a High-Capability Workforce Committed to Lifelong Learning 
and Responsive to Future Developments 

1. Past Development Situation 

 Currently, Thailand’s workforce development is facing important structural changes. 
Whereas the country’s shift towards an ageing society will result in quantitative workforce 
shortages, a decrease in workforce productivity following the COVID-19 pandemic is triggering 
qualitative shortages, which could possibly become constraints on economic expansion. Other 
issues of concern include the rapid growth of low-cost global online innovations or knowledge 
pools; shortened knowledge lifecycles, particularly on fast-changing digital technology; a shift in 
learning trends towards individual interest; the private sector’s tendencies towards recruitments 
based on competency rather than educational qualifications; and epidemics and emerging diseases 
that affect lifestyles and behaviors and also reflect the significant role of civil society networks in 
vigorously and collaboratively resolving problems amidst a lack of efficient support from the 
public sector. It is therefore necessary to expedite the country’s workforce development to equip 
people with high capabilities and leadership qualities so as to forge changes in attitudes and skills 
and boost the country’s competitiveness. 

 Efforts have been made in the development of human capital in all age groups by improving 
the quality of all levels of education, which includes raising standards, enhancing educational 
processes, adopting teaching technologies and innovations, as well as developing education 
innovation areas — education sandboxes —with increased independence and social responsibility. 
The role of development partners in educational programs and learning has also been promoted, 
particularly in providing vocational and higher education in diverse forms, such as dual vocational 
and co-operative education. Efforts have also been directed towards the reduction of educational 
disparities by identifying and providing support to marginalized children and learners through the 
Equitable Education Fund (EEF). 

Meanwhile, the Constitution of the Kingdom of Thailand B.E. 2560 (2017) stipulates that 
the State shall ensure that every child receives quality education for 12 years from pre-school to 
the completion of compulsory education free of charge, and the State should provide assistance to 
children, youth, women, the elderly, persons with disabilities, indigent persons and 
underprivileged persons to be able to have good-quality living. In this connection, education-
related laws have been revised to give the educational system more agility and consistency with 
changes. These include the Early Childhood Act B.E. 2562 (2019), the Higher Education Act B.E. 
2562 (2019), and the draft National Education Bill. 

 However, human capital development in each age group still needs further enhancement. 
While child development in children from conception to early childhood has a tendency to 
improve, there is also a need to develop additional skills in coordination with brain development, 
together with elevating the standards of childcare center infrastructure. In developing school-age 
children, an emphasis should be put on primary education as Thai learners have lower educational 
achievements than those in countries with a similar level of development. On the other hand, 
classroom education is not connected with life outside school, and some children and youth have 
negative attitudes towards education. Hence, there is a need to give these groups opportunities to 
develop knowledge in line with the Multiple Intelligences theory as well as forge positive attitudes 
towards education in order for them to embrace intellectual growth and self-development to keep 
abreast of new challenges. As for vocational and higher education, it has been found that the 


competencies of graduates do not meet the needs of the labor market despite the fact that vocational 
schools have adjusted their programs to respond to the target industries and improved their 
teachings to attract talent, such as providing science and technology-based vocational learning. 
Continuation to higher diploma levels still faces some constraints. In addition, wages offered to 
graduates at this level are not attractive enough to draw more learners. On the other hand, 
universities face decreasing numbers of students as well as challenges from technological changes 
that enable online education through various platforms that have low operational costs and 
capabilities to offer individualized content. Therefore, universities can no longer target only formal 
students. They need to offer quality experience-focused education for learners of all age groups 
with anywhere-anytime accessibility and affordability. 

 Worse still, the COVID-19 pandemic has caused prolonged school suspension and 
therefore affected the quality of learners at all levels, which inevitably results in learning loss. 
With regard to working age, challenges remain in the quantitative and qualitative shortages of 
workers and a lack of functional competency, life skills, problem-solving skill, entrepreneurship, 
and capacity in self-management and teamwork skills. In addition, the proportion of informal 
workers is found to account for 53.7 per cent of the workforce and is likely to rise due to changes 
in work patterns and a rise in the number of workers taking independent jobs sporadically and for 
a short time, known as gig workers, who require continuous motivation for self-development. 
Finally, many of the elderly still have the capacity to work and are still motivated to self-develop 
after retirement. 

 Producing a high-capability workforce to drive the country towards innovation-based 
development requires several supporting factors, such as advanced technologies and innovations, 
which play an important role in learning and capacity building, an adequate number of educational 
institutions and training platforms, as well as learners’ familiarity with technology for reskilling 
and upskilling. However, there is a lack of databases on labor demand and supply as well as data 
on required competencies for each job position in order to provide educational programming and 
training effectively. 

 Lifelong learning is an important tool for the development of people in an ageing society. 
Learners need to constantly adapt, learn, and build new competencies together with being able to 
transfer their skills effectively and seamlessly across training institutions. Nevertheless, the Thai 
population at large still lacks life skills in several areas — for example, financial literacy — which 
puts many people in spiraling debt traps from institutional loans and otherwise, and a lack of digital 
and media literacy to handle misinformation. An enabling ecosystem is therefore needed in order 
to support quality lifelong learning among all population groups both online and offline. Inclusive 
measures are also required so as to eliminate obstacles for those without access to education and 
enable them to learn and enhance their skills. 

2. Development Goals 

 2.1 Connections between Milestone 12 and the main targets and goals of the 13th 
National Socio-Economic Development Plan and the National Strategy 

 Milestone 12, whereby Thailand has a high-capability workforce committed to lifelong 
learning and responsive to future developments, is aligned with two goals of the 13th Plan, namely: 
1) Target 2: Developing human capital for the new global era by developing human capital in 
all age groups in all aspects, creating a high-competency workforce with an ability to generate 
works of the future in line with the needs of the target manufacturing sector, and producing smart 


entrepreneurs who can develop and use technologies and generate innovations; and 2) Target 3: 
Creating a society of opportunities and fairness by promoting lifelong learning, developing an 
ecosystem for lifelong learning, and setting learning options for those who cannot attend formal 
education. 

 Milestone 12 is also consistent with the following areas of the National Strategy: 

 1) Competitiveness enhancement under the goal: Thailand’s national competitiveness is 
increased. 

 2) Developing and Strengthening Human Capital under the goals: Thai people are 
skilled, righteous and equipped with qualities required for the 21st century; and: Thailand has an 
adequate social ecosystem suitable for life-cycle development. 

 3) Creating social opportunities and equity under the goals of creating fairness and 
reducing inequality in all dimensions, and creating economic and social activities across regions, 
and providing opportunities for every sector to take part in national development at all levels. 

 2.2 Goals, Indicators, and Targets 

Target 1 Thai people in all age groups are developed to their full potentials; have necessary 
capacity for the modern world; are equipped with good qualities according to social norms, 
integrity, ethics, and immunity against global disruptions; and harmoniously coexist with 
others in society. 

Indicator 1.1 Thailand’s Child Development Index increases to 88 per cent by the end of the plan. 

Indicator 1.2 The percentage of students with lower proficiency than the basic level of 
Programmed for International Student Assessment (PISA) in all three subjects in all school 
categories decreases by 8 per cent by the end of the plan. 

Indicator 1.3 Life Assets of Thai children and youth increase by 3 per cent by the end of the plan. 

Indicator 1.4 The number of university students participating in work integrated education 
increases by 30 per cent by the end of the plan. 

Indicator 1.5 Labor productivity increases by no lower than 4 per cent per year. 

Indicator 1.6 The number of senior citizens facing multi-dimensional poverty decreases by 20 per 
cent per year. 

Target 2 Thai workforce has high capability in line with the needs of target manufacturing 
sectors as well as an ability to generate jobs of the future. 

Indicator 2.1 Thailand’s Skills score in the Global Competitiveness Index by World Economic 
Forum increases by 20 per cent by the end of the plan. 

Indicator 2.2 Thailand’s World Talent Rankings, rated by the International Institute for 
Management Development, increases by 3 per cent per year. 


Indicator 2.3 There is an increase in the number and values of startups. 

Target 3 All population groups have access to lifelong learning. 

Indicator 3.1 Thailand’s score in every category of the Program for the International Assessment 
of Adult Competencies (PIAAC) is not lower than the global average. 


Indicator 3.2 The proportion of the Thai population aged 15 to 24 who are not in education, 
employment or training (NEETs) is not higher than 5 per cent by the end of the plan. 


3. Strategy Map 

 




4. Development Strategies 

Strategy 1 Ensuring that Thai people of all age groups are developed in all dimensions: 

Sub-strategy 1.1 Developing children from conception to early childhood for 
balanced development and good characters by: 

1) Building preparedness for parents/guardians as well as collaborative 
mechanisms to provide pregnant women with quality services and provide children with age-
appropriate development from conception to the age of six; 

2) Equipping teachers and caregivers with adequate knowledge and child-caring 
skills, especially with early childhood development psychology and the ability to work with 
parents /guardians in promoting child learning and age-appropriate development in line with brain 
development, physical development, and healthcare and nutrition to stimulate good and balanced 
development in children before school age; 

3) Raising the standards of early childhood development facilities and providing 
sufficient resources to become a quality mechanism for early childhood development at the local 
level; 

4) Creating an environment conducive to the learning and protection of children in 
early childhood to ensure their balanced development and age-appropriate cognitive abilities. 
Encouraging participation of family, community, local administrative organizations, civil society 
and the private sector in the process. Developing informational systems with individual records 
for each child to pass on to educational institutions to ensure continuous development. 

Sub-strategy 1.2 Equipping learners at the primary education level with self-
recognition, digital skills, and necessary competencies for learning, living and working by: 

1) Developing new approaches to learning with practical implementation to ensure 
self-management, communication skills, teamwork capability, and high-order thinking together 
with proactive learning. Piloting at educational institutions that have shown readiness to implement 
the approaches with support from local universities in providing relevant knowledge and expertise 
in new learning approaches. 

2) Raising the standards of vocational education by developing curricula co-
designed by industry experts, businesses and higher technological based educational institutions 
to ensure that graduates have the competencies in line with market needs, are employable, and 
have the capacity to become entrepreneurs. 

3) Elevating the qualitative and quantitative standards of teachers’ education and 
development by planning on a number of teachers needed for each field, developing curricula to 
equip teachers with academic knowledge, learning management skills, the ability to use 
technology and innovation through online platforms. Developing a screening system that reflects 
aptitudes for teaching. Transforming the role from that of “a teacher” to “a coach” who facilitates 
learner-centered processes. Pushing for the elevation of the teaching profession to a highly 
regarded profession. 


4) Improving the learning evaluation system to become more reflective of students’ 
diverse learning needs and in line with the development of personalized education so as to 
facilitate students’ future careers. 


5) Developing learning support systems through (1) addressing learning loss in 
school age by developing practices and support systems in educational institutions, as well as 
promoting mixed and home-based learning programs during emergency situations; (2) increasing 
the efficiency of counseling systems by training teachers and counselors to help learners plan their 
learning as well as professional and life journey based on individual interests and aptitudes; (3) 
making educational institutions a safe space for all learners in both actual and virtual societies 
by developing appropriate physical infrastructure suitable for learning; building knowledge and 
understanding among teachers, educational personnel and learners of a harmonious environment 
based on the respect of diversity in terms of opinions and identities; promoting life-skills learning 
at school; and establishing welfare protection guidelines to protect learners, particularly from 
physical and verbal violence and bullying; (4) improving the budget and educational resources 
allocation system to focus on learners’ development based on equality and fairness, and scaling up 
the coverage of technological and digital infrastructure to cover all areas; (5) decentralizing 
educational administrations and increasing the private sector and civil society’s role in educational 
management by improving laws and regulations to increase independence in education 
management, curriculum design, budgeting and personnel management. Propelling educational 
innovations according to school and local contexts. Promoting the role of the private sector, local 
administrative organizations and civil society in education programming and investment; (6) 
providing special support for gifted learners by developing a system to identify, manage and 
support gifted learners according to the Multiple Intelligences theory by means of scholarships, 
internships in leading organizations and professional jobs where they can utilize their gifts to their 
fullest potentials; (7) providing learners with special needs with diverse opportunities and access 
to education, including education options for dropout students. Developing supporting 
mechanisms and revising regulations to allow the private sector, civil society and nonprofit 
organizations to provide appropriate care and services to learners with special needs; for example, 
establishing guidelines for the private sector’s participation in setting up training centers or 
rehabilitating sentenced learners. 

6) Strengthening the population’s morality and ethics. Retaining Thai traditions, 
culture and norms, along with ensuring their congruence with the present-day context, in order for 
them to become the foundation of Thai society as well as “soft power” in promoting “Thainess” 
to the international community. 

Sub-strategy 1.3 Providing learners in higher education with required 
competencies for the professional world of the future and innovation by: 

1) Reforming higher education based on demand-directed budgeting and resource 
allocation directed to learners, together with developing and improving educational programming, 
standards, and quality assurance system. Promoting private sector engagement and resource 
mobilization in educational programming. 

2) Promoting higher education institutions’ role in addressing learning losses due 
to the COVID-19 pandemic. Connecting learning and working through personalized learning 
programs. Building and strengthening collaborations in educational programming between the 
public and private sectors. Supporting innovation in education programming with advanced 
educational innovations to produce a workforce that meets the country’s needs. Encouraging 
higher education institutions to raise the quality of education and personnel so as to support 
development with regard to social and community contexts. 


3) Linking research systems and mechanisms of research networks with domestic 
and international centers for excellence to embrace world-class researchers and technologists in 
developing and expanding on research on national development. Promoting collaborations among 
higher education institutions, researchers and startups in the form of holding companies to develop 
innovation-based businesses. Encouraging higher education institutions to conduct research with 
SMEs in the manufacturing and service sectors to facilitate a transition towards innovation-based 
economy and boost the country's competitiveness. 

Sub-strategy 1.4 Equipping working-age learners with capability necessary for, 
and relevant to, the future work by: 

1) Boosting and distributing competency enhancement opportunities to all groups 
of workers both by reskilling and upskilling through collaborations between educational 
institutions, local administrative organizations, the private sector, civil society and government 
development agencies. Planning and creating short courses to forge foundational and necessary 
skills for life and work. Improving rules and regulations to allow flexibility in diverse forms of 
implementation, especially in relation to technologies and forms of work in the future. Introducing 
a subsidizing scheme as credits for acquiring future skills to every population in order for them to 
undertake government-certified/supported skill development courses. 

2) Establishing platforms that connect learning, skill development and career 
entry. Designating responsible agencies to support those wishing to advance skills and career 
development. Associating all forms of learning and providing standard certifications to learners. 
Fostering entrepreneurs who work with the manufacturing and service sectors in an area. 

3) Adjusting work practices with optimal use of technologies to allow flexibility in 
working from anywhere. Incubating an organizational culture of encouraging talents to maximize 
their full potentials as well as promoting fair workplaces in order to eradicate corruption and 
enhance the organizations’ competency. Adhering to human rights principles, particularly labor 
rights, to ensure the security and safety of the workforce. 

Sub-strategy 1.5 Developing the elderly into valued citizens by: 

 1) Encouraging the elderly to become drivers of social change. Giving them 
opportunities to impart knowledge, experience, wisdom to people of other generations to ensure 
development continuity and intergenerational exchanges. Allowing the elderly to work according 
to their individual capacities. Developing advanced learning materials and short courses to build 
knowledge, digital competency, business skills and life skills appropriate for each group of senior 
citizens. 

2) Creating a supporting environment to correspond to the elderly’s lifestyles so as 
to ensure a happy life and wellbeing. Fostering an understanding of old age among people of other 
age groups. Developing innovations to support the elderly’s lifestyles. 

Strategy 2 Developing a high-capability workforce: 

Sub-strategy 2.1 Developing a high-capacity workforce in line with the needs of 
target manufacturing sectors and with an ability to create jobs of the future by: 

1) Promoting cross-sectoral collaborations and linkages between education and 
training as well as co-establishing an open, easily accessible learning system. Developing and 
enhancing a supportive environment to attract and retain high-capability personnel who possess 


career competencies, life skills, digital skills, problem-solving skills, entrepreneurial skills, as well 
as self-management and teamwork skills. Offering incentives and supportive mechanisms for 
training and educational programming for high-capability personnel. Advocating for knowledge 
and personnel exchanges through international cooperation mechanisms to assist in the 
development of a high-capability workforce in line with the country’s development direction. 

2) Developing information systems for workforce planning and development, 
including collecting data on workforce demands and supplies and identifying in-demand 
competencies throughout the supply and value chains for each of the target manufacturing and 
service industries. 

3) Establishing measures for urgent workforce development by piloting education 
programs areas which are deemed essential for the country's development, such as artificial 
intelligence and data analysis. 

Sub-strategy 2.2 Increasing the quality workforce so as to develop target 
manufacturing sectors by: 

1) Establishing a national mechanism to embrace high-capacity workers, both 
Thais and foreign nationals born in Thailand, and encourage them to use their capacities to serve 
in the public and private sectors. Providing borderless work environments that accommodate 
remote working with leading international public and private institutions. Supporting sabbatical 
leave as a means to enhance a high-capacity workforce’s knowledge and potentials. Creating 
professional culture, organizational culture and a work environment that allow a quality workforce 
to utilize their full potentials while staying happy at work. 

2) Promoting the import of highly skilled foreign experts through incentives to 
attract foreign experts to settle in the country and work in the field of technology and innovation. 
Incentivizing locally graduated foreign students to remain in the country to take part in innovation 
development. 

Sub-strategy 2.3 Developing smart entrepreneurs with the capability to create, 
design and use technology and innovation throughout the manufacturing, service, management 
and marketing processes by: 

1) Encouraging entrepreneurs to acquire comprehensive knowledge necessary for 
modern businesses. Fostering new beliefs that bring about awareness and gaining new knowledge. 
Strengthening skills in data application and analysis in order to inform business planning and risk 
management through convenient, concise and time-effective learning formats in both formal and 
informal education responsive to each individual's needs, through learning technologies. Building 
a community of entrepreneurs to share learning and inspirations for change. 

2) Encouraging entrepreneurs to innovate to support the value creation in future 
industries through establishing sandboxes for entrepreneurs to compete and test concepts, 
promoting investments for innovation development, as well as business matching and funding. 

Strategy 3 Promoting lifelong learning: 

Sub-strategy 3.1 Developing an ecosystem for lifelong learning by: 

1) Promoting all sectors in society to develop learning cities, learning facilities and 
diverse creative spaces both physically and virtually. Incentivizing educational institutions, local 
administrative organizations, NGOs, civil society, and the private sector, particularly startups, to 


build and develop quality learning facilities and creative spaces that offer up-to-date content in 
line with the needs of all groups of learners, together with having wide coverage and high 
accessibility both in physical and virtual spaces, in order to boost opportunities for learning as 
well as showcasing individual’s capabilities, which are key elements in creating lifelong learning 
values and behaviors. 

2) Creating learning materials that leave no one behind by designing learning 
materials in local dialects and languages for linguistic minorities. Producing alternative learning 
materials for learners with sight and hearing disabilities. Enabling learners with economic 
constraints to have access to affordable learning materials. 

3) Concretely developing learning credit banks to connect all levels and all classes 
of learning in basic, vocational, formal, non-formal and informal educations, ranging from the 
secondary, vocational to higher levels, to ensure agility and diverse learning options to all levels 
of learners. 

4) Offering incentives for lifelong self-learning through providing funds and 
training credits for all groups of population, as well as training privileges for learning facility visits. 
Encouraging the private sector in the field of educational innovation production to offer product 
usage free of charge as a corporate social responsibility activity. 

Sub-strategy 3.2 Developing learning alternatives for those who cannot attend 
formal education. Compiling educational information and promoting flexible and diverse learning 
plans for target individuals or groups to allow them to plan their learning based on personal goals 
and undertake skills recognition. Equipping all levels of relevant personnel in the education sector 
with understanding and capacity to develop learners in special target groups who have complex 
needs. 

 

 


Milestone 13: Thailand Has a Modern, Efficient and Responsive Public Sector 

1. Past Development Situation 

The public sector is one of the key mechanisms to ensure people’s good livelihoods and 
gainful employment as well as drive the country’s development. It has a significant role and 
responsibility to provide services to the public by implementing public policies, development plans 
and laws in order to bring about tangible outcomes. A key factor for the success in achieving these 
goals lies in the efficiency of the public sector, which needs to be adaptive to rapidly changing 
situations in increasingly uncertain and complex conditions. 

Several limitations that hinder the pubic sector’s ability to effectively address the needs of 
the public are, in particular, the cumbersome government structure and a vast range of 
agencies with overlapping functions, lack of integration, and limited participation of other 
development partners. As a result, the provision of public services is often delayed, unresponsive 
to the needs of the public, and has a limited area of coverage. The Worldwide Governance 
Indicators (WGI) demonstrated that Thailand’s score for Government Effectiveness dropped from 
66.83 in 2018 to 65.87 in 2019. The Thai public sector also lacks cross-sectoral collaboration 
to achieve common goals, as reflected by the execution of the Master plan under the National 
Strategy in 2020, which was 80.71 per cent underperformed. In addition, the proportion of private 
sector investment to total investment in public services was only 10.7 per cent in 2020, which was 
far lower than the Master plan’s target of 20 per cent for 2022. Also, cross-sectoral participation 
in the monitoring of government operations is rather limited and inefficient. 

Another major limitation is that the government infrastructure and work processes still 
cannot fully support e-government. Government agencies also lack systematic collection and 
integration of digital data. Hence, existing data collection is often redundant, scattered, ungrouped, 
uncategorized, lacking in quality and standard, incomplete, outdated and unready for use. The 
process to request data is also excessively complicated and time-consuming. 

Moreover, the government data on development resources lacks systematic 
integration and management and thus unusable for analyzation to inform decision-making 
processes, as reflected in the UN E-Government Survey 2020, in which Thailand ranked 57th with 
the e-government development index of 0.7565 (compared to Singapore’s 11th position with 
0.9150) and 0.7738 for e-participation index, 0.7751 for human capital index, and 0.7941 for 
online services index. 

Meanwhile, public sector personnel are often trapped in old working styles, deficient in 
digital skills, creativity, and motivation to keep up with current developments, unable to adapt to 
digital technologies, and lacking in digital culture in the public sector, which sometimes lead to 
resistance to the use of technology in government administration. One of the key factors is that 
public sector employments do not attract younger generations with capacity due to 
unattractive selection processes, inadequate remuneration, poor performance management, limited 
career advancement and competency evaluation. Moreover, an archaic and unprofessional 
organizational culture does not support self-development or commitment to the organization. As a 
result, the public sector fails to utilize the full potentials of the workforce. 

In addition, many Thai laws are outdated and unconducive to the function and 
adaptation of the public sector as well as to the provision of services to the general public 
and private sector. The legal amendment process is time-consuming and therefore unable to keep 


up with changes. Novel tools and technologies are not utilized to support the amendment, 
development and revocation of laws. Besides, there is no national legal database to provide 
access to the legal process or allow cross-sectoral participation in lawmaking. There is also a lack 
of awareness of legal compliance and consequences, resulting in unequal law enforcement, as 
reflected by the 2020 World Justice Project Rule of Law Index, in which Thailand ranked 83rd (out 
of 128 countries) in law enforcement efficiency with an overall score of 0.47. Thailand’s law 
enforcement index has a tendency to decline continuously from 0.50 in 2018, to 0.48 in 2019, and 
0.47 in 2020. 

2. Development Goals 

 2.1 Connections between Milestone 13 and the main targets and goals of the 13th 
National Economic and Social Development Plan and the National Strategy 

Thailand’s public sector needs urgent improvements and adjustments in order to fill the 
performance gaps and increase its capacity as the main driving mechanism in the government’s 
New Public Management (NPM) principle. Government administration needs to be transformed 
by applying the principles of efficiency enhancement and the pursuit of performance in civil 
services to achieve national development goals. Areas for public sector improvement to keep up 
with changes and strengthen the public sector’s capacity are: 1) Making public services responsive, 
convenient, and cost-effective to the general public and businesses by increasing the quality of 
services and allowing participations by other sectors; 2) Adjusting public sector administration as 
well as restructuring the public sector to ensure flexibility, connectivity, openness and efficiency 
to support changes and the country's development; 3) Adopting digital transformation and 
transitioning to e-government capable of utilizing data to inform the country’s development and 
administration; 4) Building a public sector administrative system which supports capacity building 
to possess necessary skills in providing e-government services as well as revising laws, regulations 
and government measures to support the country's development. 

Milestone 13, therefore, corresponds to two main development targets of the 13th Plan, 
namely: 1) Target 3: Creating a society of opportunities and fairness by ensuring inclusive, 
equitable public services; and 2) Target 5: Enhancing Thailand’s capability to cope with 
changes and risks under the new global context. 

 The development under this milestone will also result in the achievement of the National 
Strategy in four areas: 

 1) Security under the goal: Thai people have better livelihoods; 

 2) Competitiveness enhancement under the goals: 1) Thailand becomes a developed 
country with stable and sustainable economic growth; and 2) Thailand’s national competitiveness 
is increased; 

 3) Social Cohesion and Equity under the goals of 1) creating fairness and reduce 
inequality in all dimensions; and 2) enhancing the capability of local communities in areas of 
development, self-reliance and self-management to build a quality society; and 

 4) Public Sector Rebalancing and Development under two goals: 1) A public sector shift 
to results based working culture and public interests, which conveniently, responsively and 
transparently respond to people’s needs; and 2) A more adaptable and smaller public sector. 

 


 In addition, Milestone 13 is also connected with four topics in the Master plan under the 
National Strategy, namely: 1) No. 17 Equality and social security; 2) No. 20 Public services and 
public sector efficiency; 3) No. 21 Anti-corruption and misconducts; and 4) No. 22 Law and justice 
system. 

 2.2 Goals, Indicators and Targets 

Target 1 Public services are of high quality and accessible. 

Indicator 1.1 The satisfaction level for public services is not lower than 90 per cent. 

Target 2 The public sector is equipped with high capacity and agility. 

Indicator 2.1 Thailand ranks not lower than the world’s 40th with scores not lower than 0.82 in 
the E-Government Development Index (EGDI) for the overall e-government, e-participation, 
human capital, and online services indices. 


3. Strategy Map 

 

 

 

 


4. Development Strategies 

Strategy 1 Improving public services’ quality in order to be responsive, convenient and 
cost-effective: 

Sub-strategy 1.1 Terminating services that can be outsourced to other sectors. 
Eliminating public services which are relatively costly compared to that of the private sector or no 
longer needed to be a government function. Developing mechanisms and incentives for local 
administrative organizations, the private sector, social enterprises, NGOs and other development 
partners to offer service innovations to meet public needs and support the country's development 
with shared benefits and risks. 

Sub-strategy 1.2 Revising public administrative processes together with 
developing comprehensive e-government services. Adjusting the role of government from 
controller to regulator or facilitator to ensure convenience and speed, specifically in various 
approval processes. Eliminating unnecessary procedures and integrating services across agencies 
throughout all government functions. Setting a target of making every public service deemed 
necessary as a government function all-inclusive through a concrete cross-organizational 
integration of work from the policy-level to budgeting, human resource planning, and monitoring 
and evaluation so as to ensure consistency and achievement of common goals. 

Strategy 2 Adjusting public sector administration as well as restructuring the public sector 
to ensure flexibility, connectivity, openness and efficiency in order to keep up 
with changes and support the country's development: 

Sub-strategy 2.1 Urgently reviewing the public sector’s roles as well as 
decentralizing authority. Adjusting the public sector’s roles and missions in accordance with the 
country’s development directions and future situations. Decentralizing government administration, 
especially in the public-sector structure, manpower, budgeting, and procurement, so as to increase 
flexibility, agility, and efficiency in national and provincial administration. Reviewing and 
revising laws and regulations to facilitate decentralization and integration among public agencies. 
Strengthening the capacity of local administrative organizations to take over certain tasks from the 
central government. Prioritizing designating mechanisms to allow public agencies to adjust work 
processes or create innovations beyond the constraints of existing regulations. 

Sub-strategy 2.2 Fostering transparency and good governance in the public 
sector. Enabling a disclosure of information through various technologies and allowing the public 
to access and engage in delivering information, facts and opinions, and monitoring government 
performance through multiple communication channels. Integrating information management 
tasks and utilizing acquired information in a decision-making process for collaborative 
development and problem solving in order to diminish corruption. 

Strategy 3 Transitioning the public sector towards e-government that utilizes data to 
inform the country’s administration and development: 

Sub-strategy 3.1 Digitizing all government data. Collecting and digitizing all 
information related to the management of the country's resources in terms of budgets, human 
resources. Integrating information from all public agencies in a standardized digital form with 
accuracy, security, and readiness for utilization without duplications or overburden to the 
informants. Connecting the public sector’s data with those of the private sector to be used in 
analyses and processing and inform policy-related decision making and public services in order to 


correspond with the development context in an up-to-date manner. Publicly disclosing essential 
information for cross-sectional usage to support the country’s development. Prioritizing and 
urgently developing a system to integrate data essential for the public sector's policy-related 
decision-making processes in overall resource management. 

Sub-strategy 3.2 Digitizing all public sector’s work processes. Redesigning work 
processes as well as eliminating unnecessary or low-necessity paperwork and procedures. 
Adopting digital technology throughout the work process — from planning, to implementation, 
monitoring and evaluation — with the aim to provide multichannel/multimodal services to the 
public and businesses with agility, convenience, and speed. 

Strategy 4 Building a public sector administrative system that supports capacity building 
and self-development of public sector personnel to possess necessary skills for e-
government services, as well as revising laws, regulations and government 
measures to facilitate the country's development: 

Sub-strategy 4.1 Revising the public sector’s human resources management 
system to retain and attract high-capability personnel in order to help propel the country's 
development. Putting an emphasis on connections between the organization's strategic plan and 
human resource management strategies that can bring about concrete achievements. Revising 
approaches of implementation to ensure appropriateness in the size and costs of the public sector. 
Converting positions that can transfer their tasks into key positions essential for the country's 
development. Revising employment arrangements to increase variety and flexibility as well as 
cover contractual or other non-lifetime employments, while reducing lifetime employment in 
respond to the current contexts and conditions of the labor market. Attracting talents to work in 
the public sector to ensure timely and efficient completion of missions. Placing importance on 
creating innovative spaces and employment arrangements to accommodate fast, substantial and 
appropriate changes. Supporting the comprehensive development of digital competencies among 
all public sector personnel, together with fostering attitudes, ethics, knowledge and skills. 
Developing a personnel evaluation system which supports and reflects their capacity in 
systematically steering towards the country’s development goals at the organizational, team, and 
individual levels. Formulating a human resources management system capable of optimizing the 
human resources to maximize the benefits of the country's development. 

Sub-strategy 4.2 Abolishing unnecessary laws and enacting new laws conducive to the 
country's development, as well as enhancing the efficiency of the justice system. Attaching 
importance to strong law enforcement. Adjusting the public sector’s role to become a facilitator 
that supports the private sector and the public in development missions. Reforming and enacting 
laws with measurable goals focusing on the well-being of Thai people and the enhancement of the 
country's competitiveness. Improving the efficiency of the justice system. Encouraging cross-
organizational work integration to ensure speedy work processes, fairness to the affected parties, 
and convenience for the broad public. Designating a responsible agency to urgently revise outdated 
laws. Revoke unnecessary, redundant or obstructive laws which hinder public administration or 
adaptation, especially laws that obstruct the transition into e-government at all levels and laws that 
discourage the monitoring of government functions. Developing and integrating a secure, 
convenient, easy-access and easy-to-understand national legal database according to the nature of 
the entities accessing the database. 


Part 5 

--------------------------------------------------- 

Implementation of the Thirteenth National Economic 
and Social Development Plan 

(2023-2027) 

 


 Achieving the goals of the 13th National Economic and Social Development Plan (2023-
2027) requires a systematically integrated cooperation of all sectors and implementation processes 
that: 1) translate the goals and strategic approaches of the plan into operations at the levels of 
measures, plans and projects with coherence; 2) genuinely reflect the development goals; 3) push 
for integrated, collaborative operations on common development missions shared by relevant 
agencies; and 4) facilitate co-operations with other sectors who are development parties in order 
to join forces in driving successful development outcomes. Moreover, the success of the 13th Plan 
also relies on budget allocation mechanisms that support the plan’s execution, together with 
monitoring and evaluation processes that are efficient and based on participation so as to support 
relevant agencies with useful information in their improvement of plans and processes to better 
respond to the goals. These will facilitate the successful implementation of the plan and further 
support the development to realize the vision: “Thailand becomes a developed country with 
security, prosperity and sustainability in accordance with the Sufficiency Economy 
Philosophy”. 

 

5.1 Principles for Plan Implementation 

 5.1.1 Adoption of PDCA cycle (Plan-Do-Check-Act cycle) as a framework to foster 
systematic operation processes that are continually developed and improved upon. The cycle 
covers four interconnected stages: planning; executing; following-up, monitoring and evaluating; 
and improving and adapting operations in response to the monitoring results. 

 5.1.2 Emphasis on outcomes by focusing on measuring the success of operations with 
concrete goals, indicators and target values, both in terms of efficiency and effectiveness, in every 
process of the quality management cycle. 

 5.1.3 Combined multi-dimensional mechanisms — namely, the strategic mechanism, 
which focuses on creating factors that are important keys to the goals, as well as prioritizing 
operations according to their importance and urgency; the function-based mechanism, which is 
the fulfillment of official roles and responsibilities according to each agency’s specialization; and 
the area-based mechanism, which translates development plans into action through the overall 
view at the regional and provincial levels with consideration of the area’s socio-geographical 
conditions. 

 5.1.4 Operation through co-operations from all sectors to gain acceptance and reduce 
limitations originated from operations by any single agency or solely by the public sector, with 
concentration on collaborative operations and common targets. 

 

5.2 Implementation Guidelines 

Implementation Process of the 13th National Economic and Social Development Plan 


 

 


 5.2.1 Implementation mechanisms 

 Implementation mechanisms consist of operations through two parallel mechanisms: 
namely, the Outcome-based Integration Mechanism, which aims at driving the 13th Plan to 
achieve target outcomes by integrating operations of relevant agencies in the public sector and by 
cooperating with other sectors; and the Function-based Mechanism that includes the Area-
based Mechanism, which operate along the regular missions of relevant agencies and at the area-
level. The keys elements of implementing the 13th Plan through the two mechanisms are as 
follows: 

1) Outcome-based integration mechanism is a strategic operation mechanism that 
focuses on fostering the integration of operations by all relevant agencies in the public sector, 
connecting the operations with the incumbent national committees, and cultivating cooperation 
between the public sector and other sectors — the private sector, civil society, academic sector, 
population, and other development partners — in striving to achieve the goals stipulated in the 
milestones in a concrete manner. This mechanism focuses on the formulation or implementation 
of measures, plans and projects of high priority in achieving the goals of each milestone, 
particularly operations that involve many agencies, newly initiated operations, or operations 
beyond the regular missions of relevant agencies. Moreover, this mechanism will be 
instrumental in the inspection and monitoring of work progress as well as in the provision of 
recommendations to agencies at the operational level. 

2) Function-based mechanism puts an emphasis on connecting operations by relevant 
agencies according to their missions so that they can support the goals of the 13th Plan. In this 
regard, the public sector reviews and formulates the 3rd level plans, measures, operation plans and 
projects so as to implement the 13th Plan through multi-stakeholder mechanisms. 


3) Area-based mechanism stresses on formulating regional development plans, provincial 
development plans, and various area development plans to ensure that they accommodate the 
implementation of the 13th Plan by designating development guidelines and operation plans and 
projects that affect the achievement of the 13th Plan’s goals as well as other 2nd-level plans, to 
ensure local solutions and development according to the area’s potentials, as well as to support the 
goals of the National Strategy. 

 5.2.2 Budget Mechanism 

The budget mechanism is a major tool for steering the implementation of the 13th Plan 
towards outcome achievement in an efficient manner. It comprises: 

 1) The integration of the 13th Plan implementation to the annual fiscal 
expenditure budget formulation so that the budget allocation system can support the 
achievement of the outcomes set in the 13th Plan’s goals, by linking development priorities in each 
year under the 13th Plan to the fiscal budget allocation strategy. 

 2) The support for local agencies to administer and manage their budget with 
resiliency and in conformity to the 13th Plan in order to implement key development issues that 
are suitable for different contexts, potentials and demands of each local area. 

 3) The promotion of operations by various development partners by supporting 
the private sector and various development partners with potentials to invest in the manufacturing 
and service sectors targeted in the 13th Plan, including operations in development activities in 
which the private sector has expertise under designated measures and transparent inspection so 
that they can support the investment in its utmost effectiveness and efficiency. 

 5.2.3 Enhancing the roles of all sectors for participation in the 13th Plan 
implementation by: 1) encouraging the collaboration of the “HTS” (Home-Temple-School) — 
which includes communities, local administrative organizations, religious institutions, educational 
personnel, volunteers, voluntary social workers, and various development partners — to translate 
the strategies in the 13th Plan into collaborative actions for problem solving and development with 
participation of the local communities; 2) creating platforms or channels for all partners to express 
their ideas and opinions; 3) participating in local development activities and join forces with local 
administrative organizations and other local agencies to implement the 13th Plan, which in turn 
will help revitalize the community and encourage local communities to become the major forces 
in national development; and 4) implementing the 13th Plan by promoting collaborations among 
communities and international organizations, particularly on development issues of high priority 
at the regional and sub-regional levels. 

 
5.3 Monitoring and Evaluation 

The monitoring and evaluation of the 13th Plan implementation covers monitoring and 
evaluation at the work plan and project levels, particularly work plans and projects with high 
priority to achieve the goals of each milestone, in order to forward feedbacks to relevant agencies 
and development partners for a review and improvement of the plans and operation process to 
ensure that the targets are reached. Feedbacks include a total outcome evaluation of the 
development in accordance with the indicators of the milestones and the main goals laid down in 
the plan. Monitoring and evaluation at all levels must strive for integration and participation to 


foster efficiency and transparency. The monitoring and evaluation of the 13th Plan implementation 
include operations in 3 stages, as follows: 

 5.3.1 Progress Monitoring is the monitoring and evaluation while the projects are 
underway in order to inspect and monitor whether their operations align with the objectives, goals, 
and timeframes as well as examine whether there might be any obstacles that might delay or 
impede the operations from attaining specified outcomes within the designated timeframe. The 
monitoring relies on mechanisms and agencies at all levels with the mission to monitor the public 
sector’s operations — for example, the Public Sector Audit Evaluation Committee (PAEC), 
government inspectors at different levels, and relevant agencies — to work together through 
integrated collaborations, as well as prepare reports, at appropriate intervals, on the monitoring 
and evaluation results for the outcome-based integration mechanism. 

 5.3.2 Outcome Evaluation is the evaluation of the completed plans and projects as to 
whether, and to what degree, they have achieved specified goals, outputs, and outcomes. This also 
includes an achievement evaluation in accordance with the indicators of the milestones and the 
main goals of the development plan, both during and at the end of the plan. At this juncture, 
relevant agencies, both central and local agencies, shall report progress and outcomes of their 
action plans in the national monitoring and evaluation system. The evaluation is to show both the 
direct and indirect achievements of the goals set out in the 13th Plan, which will lead to data 
processing and the presentation of the overall outcome evaluation of the 13th Plan implementation. 
The overall outcome evaluation is to be publicized, and communication channels for receiving the 
public opinions are to be arranged. 

 5.3.3 Impact Evaluation analyzes economic, social, and environmental changes that result 
from major operations under the 13th Plan. This includes changes on the macro level, the local 
level, and the target group level, as well as in the capability to support the achievement of the goals 
set by the National Strategy. 

 

 


